 With the holiday season on our doorstep, many will make their way to Mozambique soon. It is however important to note that as from Friday November 16, there has been financial chaos in the country. Important read on modern Mozambique All the ATM’s and card machines that use the software provided by Bizfirst have been down for almost a week now. The service provider is known as Ponto24 – which allows the mobile system as well as the internet banking system. Currently most banks are operating in that system. It does however appear that the only bank that uses a different system is Millenium BIM (Banco de Investimentos de Mocambique), and is therefore operational. Which banks are affected? Some of the banks that have been affected include BCI, Mozabanco, Standard Bank and FNB to mention a few. Since Bizfirst has made the decision to interrupt the services, anyone who holds an account with any of the banks cannot use their cards in any ATM machine nor a card machine whether it is national or worldwide. How am I supposed to get cash? The online banking system is working and individuals are encouraged to draw the money from the bank itself in order to have access to their money. In a communication sent from Bizfirst to SIMO (the entity responsible for the payment of the services and the contractual agreement) , it explains that since March 2016 the banks have been using the services but unfortunately SIMO not only did not sign any contract with Bizfirst nor did they pay for the services provided throughout which explains current situation and the decision to interrupt there services. How the problem can be fixed and how long will it take?  
In order to fix the problem, Bizfirst is waiting for SIM to come up with possible solutions and suggestions in order to resume the services – which includes the signing of the contract and therefore, there is no prevision of when the problem will be solved. The governor of the Bank of Mozambique apparently told parliament this morning that they have identified a new software provider for the ATM/POS system (not BizFirst) but they don’t expect the new system to be up and running until the end of the year. Some suggestions: 1. Use Internet banking for any transference needed or the Mpesa service.
2. To suggest EFT payments at the shops with proof of payment done by email or SMS.
3. Moneygram services are also available for Mozambicans who are in a different country and stuck as they cannot use their cards.
4. Draw the money from the bank. S.Africa coal belt among world’s pollution hotspots 