 I was privileged to attend the launch right here in our backyard, and I must congratulate Megan MacDonald & Kie (PR) for the choice of location. The route planning was done by another icon in our neck of the woods, the owner of Sabie Valley Rider Academy, Thomas Böhm.  The roads, with permission from Sappi of course, took us deep into the forests to the Matumi picnic spot and the truly magnificent Venus Waterfall – up and down steep climbs, Through fog and, well, it was just absolutely breathtaking and sincerely good for the soul. ALSO READ: Little Suzuki gets a new look. So by now you have probably realized that the icon I am referring to is the new Suzuki Jimny. Other than the bragging rights to 20 years of offering a no compromise, affordable, true, highly respected 4×4 off-roader to Tom, Dick and Harry and then some, this Jimny is completely new from the ground up.  Its ethos is still as authentic as the day the original concept was conceived. And, so much is the demand for this new Jimny, that you may well have to wait for months before you will be able to take delivery. It is just unheard of in this day and age. Yes, it is still undilutedly compact, square and upright (which improves overall visibility and awareness) with tighter approach (37 degrees) and departure (49 degrees) and a wicked 28-degree breakover angle.  This design, says Suzuki: “enables the roof to carry more weight and it improves rollover safety in case of an accident”. ALSO READ: Suzuki Ignis has everything and more. Here’s another interesting stat: the Jimny is 40mm wider and 50mm shorter, but offers 40mm more legroom in the rear than the previous model.  And here’s an interesting motivation for the front bumper design: “it exposes more of the tyre tread on a horizontal plane, for greater climbing capability in rocky off-road conditions”. Hmmm… clever – a thought that has never crossed my mind. At the rear, the lights have been moved into the bumper.  This allows for a wider rear door resulting in easier access and of course, greater practicality. The spare wheel is fitted to the door. Again this frees up space inside the Jimny for more luggage and a flat luggage floor. Add to this moulded bumpers and wheel arches which not only prevent stones and stuff damaging paint surfaces, but also enhance the overall rugged looks of the Jimny.  The new Jimny will be available in two derivatives – the GA and GLX. The latter comes with 15” alloy wheels, colour-coded door handles and then some. I love the new interior – still very uncomplicated and angular, but much more sophisticated, ergonomic and modern and also offering an assist-grip and cell phone tray in the middle layer of the three-layer design.  A speedometer and tachometer are housed in separate square binnacles. Every feature and convenience is easily accessible – including the USB socket. ALSO READ: Third-generation Swift reinvents itself. The floor console is particularly handy to hold Ready to go anywhere and take on any terrain Continued from page 1 your cell phone and a 500ml can.  The front seats are wider and, as we experienced on the drive in the forest, exceptionally comfortable. It also offers a longer slide range – 240mm to be exact. The front seat’s design allows one to fold it completely flat, which means the space inside the Jimny can be converted to a comfortable sleeping environment.  All derivatives offer air conditioning, power steering, a complete ALLGRIP PRO 4X4 system with LSD, ESP, Hill Hold and downhill descent control, so yes, the new Jimny has got you covered. The ladder-frame chassis has been further improved by adding a crossmember between the rigid axle. This limits body flex in challenging crossaxle driving conditions.  Other than improving the driving dynamics, this also improves crash safety. Atop of this ladder frame, there are now eight vertically softer, but horizontally harder mounts. This provides a much softer but still very stable on and off-road driving performance. This was one of the very first impressions I got when we hit the road.  The suspension absolutely soaked up the irregularities on the tar road – it is truly impressive. The rigid axles have been improved via a three-link connection, leading and trailing arms. The steering damper was improved to limit vibration on rough and challenging off-road driving and, I love this the pushbutton selection for 2H/4H/4L has been replaced by a conventional shift lever which is directly connected to the transfer gear.  So, with its brake-limited slip diff and electronic stability control systems, the Jimny is about to acquire even more of a cult status. On a seriously challenging downhill into a deep valley, my driving partner (Roger McCleery) and I engaged downhill assist, engaged neutral and allowed the Jimny to attack the downhill on its own accord.  The Jimny was unfazed. Up the other side – again no problem. As for us: we looked at each other and said: “^%&(** this is unbelievable!” The new Jimny is now kitted with a 1.5-litre engine, producing 75kW and 130Nm and of course, your fuel bill will be substantially less – rated at 7,3L/100km by Suzuki.  On the open road, travelling at a constant 120km/h, is an absolute breeze, as is customizing your Jimny with many extras. Wanting a Jimny will inflict pain. It will, however, not be in the price: it will be in the time you’ll have to wait for it!  At just about a sniff more than R264 000 rand for the GA and R319 900 for the top GLX with the autobox, it’s a biscuit – ready to go down, up, over and or through anything nature throws at it. The Jimny is as desirable as celebrity chef Nigella – tough and indestructible as Sarel van der Merwe and in Jungle Green, it synchronizes perfectly with my desire to get out of the rat race and explore more of the Sappi plantations.  So – Megan – do you catch my drift?