Ruby Rabbits’ ethos and values are based on the grace of God. A little one’s first introduction to a “school” environment can be a difficult and emotional time for both parent and child.  Knowing that your child is happy, secure and especially cared for is crucial for every parent’s peace of mind. At Ruby Rabbits you can be sure of a  warm and nurturing environment combined with exceptional early childhood development professionals. They aim to instill a love of life, people and learning through individual attention. Your children’s well-being, safety and security are the top priorities at Ruby Rabbits. CCTV cameras are installed in all indoor and outdoor areas and Hi-Tech Security renders armed response services as well as 24-hour medical emergency services and ambulance. All the teachers at Ruby Rabbits are certified Level 1 First Aiders.  At Ruby Rabbits the key to learning is through play and doing. Their daily program provides for ample free play as well as teacher-initiated play. While exploring and experimenting with large varieties of textures, smells, tastes, temperatures, colours, shapes, sounds, movements and first hand experiences, children are lead on a sensory adventure, discovering the properties of things through all their senses. At Ruby Rabbits messy play is much more than just getting dirty! It can excite even the youngest child’s imagination and promote a sense of great achievement, self-expression and fun. Even their creative art activities are “process-based” (free art) as children learn through open-ended activities. It allows them the chance to explore the world around them, ask questions, and see how things work. It gives them room to be themselves, make their own decisions, and explore their own creativity and imagination. Classes are limited to 15 children and structured to ensure quality care and individual attention. Ruby Rabbits’ goal is to cultivate independence and self-confidence from a young age through varied fun filled experiences, as the children are encouraged to explore and learn at their own pace. At this proactive and innovative little playschool there literally never is a dull moment. Educational field trips, in-house expeditions and fun activities like puppet shows, bakers days, show and tell, face painting, dress-ups and many more are in full supply. “We are blessed with a very special playschool-community. Our parents are our partners. Together, we are laying our children’s foundation.”, says owner-principal Adri Ferreira. They have one-on-one debriefings with each parent on a daily basis, during which their little one’s day is discussed. Open and honest communication between home and playschool is in the best interest of the child.       