 BARBERTON – The streets of Emjindini were painted green, black and gold on Sunday when the ANC took its Thuma Mina campaign to the area. Some National Executive Committee and National Working Committee members engaged with local residents regarding service delivery issues. The members included parliament Speaker, Baleka Mbete, Paul Mashatile, David Mahlobo, Rejoice Mabhudafhasi, Thabang Makwetla, Barbara Creecy and Pinky Moloi. From the provincial front were the City of Mbombela Local Municipality mayor, Sibusiso Mathonsi, Speaker Mandla Msibi, ANC regional secretary Ngrayi Ngwenya, ANCYL regional secretary Siyabonga Malandule and its chairman Bheki Lubisi. Read More: General hospital lauded for its community service The leadership conducted a door-to-door campaign in various wards, where they also reminded the local residents about the ANC values. They further encouraged potential first-time voters to register for next year’s national government elections. The IEC has set the weekend of January 26 and 27 as the dates for people to visit any of the country’s 22 932 voting stations, where first-time voters will be allowed to register and registered voters can check and update their details. Mbete assured the community that the ANC was in a rebuilding phase. She said she believed that the ruling party will achieve an overwhelming win in the 2019 elections. “The community of Umjindi has shown that this is an ANC home,” she said. “For each and every house we visited during the door-to-door trail campaign, there is no place where we were denied access. This is an indication that the people of Emjindini still love the party that brought them democracy in this country.” Also Read: ANC leadership chess game comes to Mpumalanga Mbete, who was accompanied by Malandule, said the most frequent problems faced by local residents they heard about were service delivery and unemployment. She said many people were happy that they have received RDP houses. Sipho Metiso, a resident of Extension 11, said he felt blessed to have Mbete visiting his home.
“I am an ANC in my heart. Usually, I watch these leaders on television when they are disrespected by Julius Malema and his party members. Today, it’s truly a blessing to have Mbete in my house. I will cherish this by continuing to vote for the ANC. I know where we come from and as a black person I can’t wish to see this country going back to the hands of oppressors,” said Metiso.