 MBOMBELA – According to police spokesman Sgt Gerald Sedibe, a man had arranged with First National Bank at the Pinnacle building the day before that he would be drawing a substantial amount from its ATM that day. Bossies Community Justice’s Albert Gryvenstein, who responded to the scene, spoke to the victim. “He said after he had drawn the money, he got into his car and noticed a black Polo hatchback with white stripes on it following him. He was on his way to Ocean Basket, but noticed it was still closed, so he drove around to see if the vehicle was following him. The car then drove into the provincial police building’s parking lot in Ferreira Street, so he relaxed.” He then drove to The Outpost and parked in the undercover parking at the centre. “He said he was on his phone when two men came to the driver’s side of his window and pointed firearms at him. He told me he said they said they were police inspectors and that they knew he had drug money on him. The man handed over the money and they left.” Gryvenstein said the victim looked calm and explained that the money was from his own business and he was supposed to pay it over to a woman he had arranged to meet that day. “He did not tell us what business he was in, but was worried as there would be no form of insurance for his money loss.” Sedibe said in the statement given to the police the man stated there were three men, who claimed they were from the “Hawks”. He said the one hit him with a hammer. They searched his car for drugs and found the money and fled the scene in a white Sedan. The Outpost kindly allowed Lowvelder to see the CCTV footage of the event. What can be seen is three men are dropped off at the corner of the centre. One walks towards the back part of the undercover parking area and two others walk in the front of the parking area. One of the men can clearly be seen holding a firearm. A security guard in the parking lot stated that as soon as he saw one of the men had a firearm, he immediately ran to hit the panic button. The camera footage could not capture the actual robbery, but showed the three men running towards a white sedan with no back hubcaps and no number plates on it. The black Polo hatchback with white stripes is parked behind the sedan in the road. Both vehicles can be seen driving towards the traffic lights in Ferreira Street away from the scene. A source close to the investigation alleged that the black Volkswagen Polo is suspected to have been involved in a number of hijackings in the area.