 The Crocriver Mountain Conservancy has only one road through it (the Mara/Boulders road) and then one dirt road splitting off and forming a dead-end on one of the farms. This dirt road was the original ox wagon route to Barberton. And years ago, before the gorge had a road, this tar road was dirt, and also the only one from Malalane’s side.  At the top of the mountain was a tea house called Berg Café, where travelers used to stop and refill with water after the arduous climb! It was on the farm where this tea house was situated, that the idea for a motorbike day in the reserve was born.  It’s the brainchild of Theunis du Plessis and Gert Meyer – owner and farm manager of Daarbo Boerdery. Both men zip around the farm on bikes. Theunis is often spotted with one of his brood either in front or behind him on the bike. Several farmers were approached so as to test the waters. All of them responded with enthusiasm. The circle route started and finished on Grasslands farm. As this was our first event of this kind, it was decided that the route should accommodate the whole family – whether on bikes or quads.  The addition of extra routes or sections will be considered in 2019 to also accommodate more experienced and adventurous riders. Each farmer took responsibility of the preparation and marking of the part of the route which runs through his farm. The route offered several “pit stops” where the riders could stop for a snack.  This proved very popular, and some riders enjoyed this so much that they actually stayed out on the route longer than planned. Each rider received a number and bangle when they registered. This was checked on arrival at the start and again on completion of the route, thus enabling us to keep tabs on those still out. Our recovery and medical teams were headed up by the well known captains, Joey and Pottie Potgieter. We were quite surprised by the 96 entrants on the day.  So, considering this being our first event ever, it was, in our humble opinion, a great success. Will it become an annual event? Most certainly it will! Farmers are acutely aware of poaching happening all over and the entry fees collected on the day will enhance our efforts to curb poaching on the reserve.  It will help with entry security, sweeping farms for snares and just generally bring poachers to book. Thank you to all participants and sponsors who made this such a successful first event.