As Win a Home Season 5 draws to an end, the Design Duos have one final challenge left to win over the judges and walk away with the title of Winning Design Duo and the R100 000 in prize money. Time is also running out to enter the Win a Home weekly and Grand Prize draws which will see one lucky person win their choice of the three Design Duos apartments. All three apartments are valued at over R3 million and are fully furnished to impeccable standards. The apartments are situated on Balwin Properties’ spectacular new Paardevlei Lifestyle Estate in Somerset West. This exciting new pet-friendly estate has 24 hour security, an on-site Lifestyle Centre with a gym, concierge, laundromat, restaurant and swimming pool. If you fancy a round of golf you are spoilt for choice with Strand, Somerset West, Helderberg and Erinvale Golf Clubs all in close proximity as well as The Momentum Golf Village, with its world-class driving range, just 500m from the estate! If the beach is more your thing then the wonderful Strand Beach is just a five-minute drive away from the estate or take a dip at the much loved Bikini Beach at the nearby town of Gordon’s Bay. For a day of pampering the wonderful Idunna Sanctuary Spa is less than a kilometre away from Paardevlei or if you want to shop till you drop then the Sanctuary Mall, Somerset Mall and the Waterstone Village Shopping Centre are all close by. With beer tasting at Triggerfish Brewery or wine tasting Flagstone Winery on your doorstep as well as numerous restaurants, coffee shops and markets just minutes away – Paardevlei Lifestyle Estate really is an entertainers dream. “We decided to move to Paardevlei about a month ago. We were looking for a pet-friendly place. It just made sense to move here as it’s so central. It’s close to everything we want to do” – Duncan Vester & Lexi Coetzer, residents at Paardevlei Lifestyle Estate. Catch Win a Home on Thursday at 7:30PM on SABC3 as the Duos race to complete their final room challenge – the living room & balcony challenge! Vote for your favourite Duo to stand a chance of winning next week’s weekly prizes which include:
A Duram paint voucher worth R5000, A Weylandts voucher worth R5000 or a Kamado JAN all-in-one grill from Cosi Home worth R14 900. You’ll also stand a chance of winning a Samsung Soundbar with Bluetooth, Acoustic Beam Technology worth R7500! As always, if you’re a Capitec client you’ll also stand the of chance of winning an additional cash prize! With all this up for grabs make sure you enter now on the Private Property website! Good luck!