 Barberton TB Specialised Hospital staff have committed themselves to the code of conduct for public service. They have pledged to serve patients with loyalty, respect, dignity and integrity. They signed this promise last Thursday during the hospital’s open day. The aim of the event was for the community to interact with the management, get screened for various health problems and familiarise themselves with the environment. The chairman of the hospital board, Aziz Moola, commended the community for attending. Members of the public were given eye tests and screened for cardiac problems, TB, diabetes, hypertension, dental issues and kidney problems. Occupational therapy services were offered. Velly Madonsela, hospital chief executive officer, assisted with these and the referral system, which is a critical aspect of service delivery that the public must understand. He urged the community to play a positive role in creating a TB-free society. “We have to fight until we win. We urge patients to use their TB treatment and they will be cured. Family members of those affected by the disease need to support them. Family support is important in the fight to end TB,” he said. Read More: Health fights to eradicate TB beyond World TB Day Cllr Mongezi Nkosi urged those in attendance to spread what they had learned. “This disease is curable. It is not like in the past where a patient had to take many pills. The pills are now fewer. People must take their doctor’s prescriptions. I’m more concerned about men. They don’t do their health screenings and end up dying young,” said Nkosi. Two former patients, who were once admitted at the hospital after being diagnosed with TB, are both living testimonies that the disease is curable. Zwelakhe Shongwe and Hlalaphi Nkosi were diagnosed with TB, but have since been cured. Nkosi said that when she was diagnosed with the bacterial lung disease back in 2010, her life became a battle and her biggest fear was death. “I suffered from short breath and always had to isolate myself from my family, including my children and also the community, because I needed to get well. It wasn’t easy to accept that I had TB because I have heard that many people die from it. I was also scared that I might die because of it.” Nkosi spent six months at Witbank TB Hospital and soon after that she started the multi-drug resistance treatment.
Two years later she was cured. “TB is curable and I know that because I am living proof,” said Nkosi. Shongwe said TB does not discriminate. “I’m a police officer by profession, but I ended up here at hospital after being diagnosed with TB. As parents, we need to educate our children about personal hygiene from a young age. If we can keep our living environment clean, in that way we will be able to curb this disease,” said Shongwe.