 Stabilis, Buco and Lowvelder received a warm welcome from Blessing Crèche during their follow-up visit on Wednesday. It has been three months since the day care received their much-needed revamp. A number of local businesses and individuals joined hands to upgrade the centre on Mandela Day. The upgrade was all-encompassing, with everything from the kitchen to the bathroom and classrooms being made better than new. As a way to keep the spirit of generosity going, Stabilis, Buco and Lowvelder visited the school this week to check if they were still doing well. They are some of the businesses that are part of this great initiative of supporting the day care. ALSO READ:Lowvelder visits Blessing Crèche after Madiba day
On their arrival the kids were smiling from ear to ear. They later performed some songs and interacted with the visitors. Mariam Chibambo, the founder of Blessing Crèche, said it was nice to see the visitors in the school. “Their visit means a lot to us and it is great to see that they still check if we are still doing fine. “The renovations and donations really made a huge impact. The kids love the new look and everything we received. We got our food supplies and the kids are well fed,” she said.  Pottie Potgieter, manager of Buco Nelspruit, said he was very proud of the revamped school. “It is amazing to see how they are taking care of everything that was donated, and the kids are also extraordinary. Everything still looks as good as new, which shows how they are appreciating everything. The kids are well-mannered, disciplined and when I look at them, I feel positive about that future,” he said.   Elsabe Verwey, HR and payroll manager from Stabilis, said it was a fantastic surprise when they walked into the school grounds and found everything just the way they left it on July 18. “It really warms my heart that the changes and contributions we made are so appreciated by Mariam. She is doing an absolutely amazing job of taking care of the children, and managing the classrooms, grounds, vegetable gardens, and all the stock that was donated,”she said.  Stabilis considers projects on an annual basis, based on need and merit. “If Blessing Crèche require assistance again in the future, we will definitely consider assisting them once again. They now have the infrastructure and supplies to function as a proper crèche. We plan to keep contact with Mariam and Penreach, to assist as the need arises,” said Verwey.  Julia Burger, marketing manager at Lowveld Media echoed the sentiment. “Following our efforts at Blessing Crèche, Mataffin on Madiba Day, we paid a visit again on Wednesday. “The visit was nothing but a delight and a ray of hope. It was a wonderful welcoming at the premises with everything neat as a pin, friendly, happy kids running, playing and singing along,” she said.
“Discipline at the school is just superb. A huge, big, heartfelt hug and blessings to Chibambo and the kids,” said Burge