 Not many books available on the history of modern day Mozambique paint such an objective and unemotional picture of the course of history after independence as the 2017 memoir, Can You Smell The Rain, by John Hewlett. For many years Hewlett was Lonrho’s man in Mozambique. As an ardent collector of books on the history of Mpumalanga and its surrounding regions, I find this a welcome addition to my library. After a second reading, often pausing to cross-reference, I realised what a compelling work this somewhat unassuming book is. Written as the memoir of a man positioned centrally to the politicians and role players, as well as the action during this initial period of socialistic nihilism, civil war and then the awakening of a modern African state, it also makes good reading for those who enjoy a personal experience and viewpoint. The publisher’s notes read, somewhat ambitiously, “A memoir of Mozambique: from communism and war to democracy and peace – from boardroom intrigue to private islands. This is a true African tale of persistence and tenacity. The story of a farmer and pilot raised in colonial Kenya who went on to play an active role in Mozambican politics while leading Lonrho’s foreign investment in that country.”  To me this book also reflects a picture quite relevant to the current situation in South Africa. Though nearly 50 years later, the South African populace, to my mind, is heading for that same post-colonialism state of socialistic nihilism. One should have the hope for a more reasonable course of events, though the continuous utterances of populist leaders to the left – and even those currently in government – creates a feeling of great pessimism. Same as it seems to be the case with South Africa today, this book is also about unfortunate policy choices and governance – and the economic damage done to a country and its people. Among its many layers, Can You Smell The Rain offers a somewhat sympathetic insider’s view of “Tiny” Rowland who Wikipedia describes as a controversial high-profile British businessman, corporate raider and chief executive of the Lonrho conglomerate from 1962 to 1994. He gained fame from a number of high-profile takeover bids. Hewlett remains one of his few allies. Rowland was known for his complex business interests in Africa and his closeness to a number of African leaders, into which Hewlett fitted well. Lonrho was also one of the important beneficiaries to the ANC in exile pre-1990.This is a fitting read for those interested in local history. Also for the many of us often visiting neighbouring Mozambique. It provides an overview of recent history and gives an insight to what is still visible since colonial times and to what has happened since independence. It is also fitting that the book has been translated into Portuguese to be more accessible to the local population, as a reminder of those troubled times. Can You Smell The Rain is published by 30 Degrees South Publishers and can be ordered on amazon.com or 30degreessouth.co.za.