 It will start with a Carnival Xperience, which is a colourful display of the local cultural diversity. The end of the Carnival Xperience will signal the start of the Traditional Music Xperience at Hoërskool Bergvlam and the lineup is 100 per cent Mpumalanga. It will feature Nothembi Mkhwebane, General Muska, iQhugalipholie Nemajongosi, Magidzeludzakeni, Dave, Braweni, Masikane, Smangele, Boikantso Cultural Group, Ama 2020 Group, Mashego Dilayi Tradition Group, Tiakeni Magaza Traditional Group, Sireletsa Traditional Group, Harp and Bowl Entertainment Bekenzela Traditional Group, Mkhupha Traditional Group, Rhythm Image Dance Studio, Drummies, Church Band, Sanathan Dharm Sangam, Lutsango, Sakalaswa Sepedi Kajibane, Khoi-Khoi Dance Group, Seabe Troopers, Simbayi, Sepulane, Meropa, Expolosion, Libutso, Makweyela, Cansa, Valencia Combined Schools, Laerskool Nelspruit, Nelspruit Primary, Unigrad College, Hoërskool Nelspruit, Working on Fire, The Stevenson-Hamilton Pipe Band, Master Models Talent, Zippy Clown, Hoërskool Bergvlam, Bikers and Puppeteers. Entrance is free. The Stevenson-Hamilton Pipe Band. The day will conclude with a Gospel Xperience at the same venue, which features Donny, Lungi S, Pretty Mhlongo, Sicelo Moyo, Jay Jay, Mpumalanga Praise, Paul and Healing, Qiniso Mabaso, Khongelani, Lucky Gumede, Mphotholozi, Sydwell Matsebula, Phindile, Indumiso, Benjamin Dube, Lebo Sekgobela and Thami Ngubeni. Entrance is R50. On December 1 is the Music Xperience at Mbombela Stadium and entrance is free. The lineup features Madumane, Soul Session Joyful Sound, Zodwa Mabena, Mr Killer, Pensele, Klip Gang, DJ Ocean. The other artists on the lineup are Khanyi Mbau, Prince Kaybee, Kwesta, Judith Sephuma, Stimela, Nathi, Dr Malinga, TDK Macassette, Jaziel Brothers, Bholoja and Mr Bow. Khanyi Mbau. The Choral Music Xperience, which happens on December 1 at MTPA Auditorium, is made up of local choirs and it features Bohlabela Youth Choir, Thulamahashi Choristers, Gert Sibande TVET, Ikhethelo Lobuciko, AB Pioneers, White River Philarmonic Choir, Msukaligwa Music Initiative, Mpumalanga SAPS Choir, TUT Emalahleni and Emalahleni Choral Sounds. Entrance is free and it starts at 09:00.  On Sunday, the Mpumalanga Cultural Xperience will deliver the best of both worlds with a Soul Session Xperience at Botanical Gardens and Chaf Zar, respectively. The Botanical Gardens will host the Soul Session Xperience featuring Lungile Mango, Celani Dube, Afrotraction, Musa, Karabo, Rio Mabunda, Sweet Mike, Ndlovukazi, Mafikizolo, Wilson B Nkosi, Sentle and Ringo. Entrance is R100 and R250 VIP. Chaf Zar will host a Kasi Xperience and entrance is R100 and R400 VIP. The Soul Session Xperience features and the Kasi Xperience will be a paradise for dance, Hip-Hop and kwaito enthusiast such as Kedebone, Mbuzana, DJ Mbhabha, Jay Spitter, DJ Sdunkero, Sisco T, DJ Crizozo, Trevor Dee, DJ Muzi and DJ Flusky. Shimza, AKA, Babes Wodumo Distruction Boys, Nadia Nakia and Dr Malinga will also perform on the day. Jay Spitter. The curtain on the Mpumalanga Cultural Xperience will fall down with the hosting of Gospel Awards on December 9 at Communio Church and entrance is R200 and R350 VIP. The lineup features Donny, Sipho, Ntokozo Mbambo, Ney Zimu, Dumi Mkokstad, Thinah Zungu, Derrick Ndzimande, Mfundisi Shoba, Ian Calf, Samson, Ndumiso Makubule, Thandeka G, Mpumalanga Praise, Lucky Gamede, Masibuyele Kujehova, Nkabinde Brothers, Slyvester, Pretty Mhlongo and Mxolisi Mbethe. Tickets for the Mpumalanga Cultural Xperience are available at Computicket.