 BARBERTON – The Mpumalanga Department of Culture, Sport and Recreation launched an art exhibition at Barberton Museum last Friday. According to Jabu Dlamini, head of the culture section, the exhibition, which they plan to host monthly, was a platform for local artists to exhibit their work. She said they will host it for two days a month. “This exhibition is a platform for all local poets, traditional dancers, choral musicians and crafters, among others, to come here and display their work. Those who have crafted their work will come and display here for tourists while we encourage poets, traditional dancers and musicians to come and perform here,” said Dlamini. She said their aim was to market local artists’ work. “We want to market their craft to the world. They must know that their products are worth something. The unfortunate part is that they can’t display their work to the global market. This platform here at Barberton Museum is an attempt to break that barrier. More and more tourists are visiting the museum daily, and many of them are interested in the local products,” added Dlamini. She said they are also planning to establish a market stall at the museum to sell the local crafters’ work. Among those who attended the launch was an ANC MP from Emjindini, Derrick Mnguni. Read More: Barberton to host annual national heritage symposium in October  He said he was impressed by the work on display. Mnguni visited various stalls that were set up outside the museum and purchased a few items. He also had a brief tour inside the museum, where he visited the Umjindi Struggle Liberation room, which displays the history of local politicians. Among those represented in the room are Gerald Sono, who was the first mayor of Umjindi Local Municipality, ex-ANC member of parliament, Tseko Taabe and Moffat Zulu, who was part of the Umjindi Youth Organisation in the 1980s. “It is very emotional to be in this room. My eyes are filled with tears. This reminds us where we come from,” said Mnguni. Sibongile Mpila, who displayed his artwork, said the exhibit was a great initiative as it provides them with a platform to showcase, promote and sell their work in a more accessible way. “I’m really happy to be a part of the first exhibition and I’m looking forward to what it brings. I’m hoping that a newer audience gets exposed to my work. I sense it’s going to be a very positive experience for me,” she said. The next exhibition will be held on November 23 and 24. Enquiries: Dlamini
on 083-677-1864.