 I recently had the SYM CitiCom S 300i as my daily commute. One of the main features of any scooter is the practicality of storing large items under your seat. In the case of the SYM, it has a cavity large enough to hold a helmet and other loose items. It is ideal for quickly running down to the shops for milk.  The SYM also has a lockable cubbyhole and a handy hook to hang even more stuff on. In the cubbyhole, there is a 12V socket to charge any device while on the go. ALSO READ: Family heirloom bike, the drive behind restoration It adds protection from the elements too. When you hit a puddle of water on your motorcycle, you are sure to get your shins wet. On the SYM you will stay dry.  The seating position on this bike was comfortable, but I was missing a little more room for my feet. The pillion has a generous seat and the foldout footrests tuck away neatly when not in use. Switchgear on the SYM felt like good quality, as does the rest of the bike. For routine services, there are 44 dealers dotted throughout the country as SYM is imported and backed by Kawasaki South Africa.  Scooters are ridiculously easy to ride. The SYM is no different. It has a 278cc engine and it is rather pokey. A simple twist of the throttle and you are off. Stopping requires a tug on either of the brake levers. The braking on the SYM uses a combined braking system and that shaves speed of the SYM with minimal effort.  The most important test for me was if I could keep up with highway traffic and the CitiCom obliged. The manufacturer claims a top speed of 137km/h, but I think they might be a bit conservative.  The engine felt under no strain doing 120km/h and I am sure the plucky little SYM will be able to go faster. The other feature that makes this bike stand out is the 16-inch wheels. ALSO READ: Bobber Black the bike with the delightful growl Bigger than your standard scooter wheels, it does smooth out the road quite effectively. Sadly the short wheelbase makes the bike a bit skittish over uneven surfaces, but nothing that made me feel uneasy. If you do a lot of urban commuting, you will be well advised to consider the SYM CitiCom 300i.