 MBOMBELA – Changes and upgrades are underway at Nelspruit SPCA in preparation for a farm pound. Lowvelder previously reported that a farm pound is a possible solution for stray animals causing accidents on Lowveld roads.
The Nelspruit SPCA took this as a challenge, and has built rabbit cages and dug a pond at the gate for stray geese that might find their way to the shelter. Bird cages that were donated to the SPCA. The shelter intends to repair and put them up as new aviaries. SPCA vice-chairman, Ludi Botha, confirmed that they are also working on a cattle crush and paddocks for livestock, new aviaries, expanding the quarantine area and obtaining all the necessary equipment to get a vet’s room up and running. The latter will cost about R102 000. He, however, explained that negotiations with the City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) have come to a standstill. “We will not negotiate with them any further until we have received our grant,” Botha said. On August 8, Nelspruit SPCA along with Barberton and White River SPCAs, were awarded official pound status. This status comes with a sizeable grant from the municipality that will assist with the running costs of the shelter. For Nelspruit SPCA this will also assist with all the upgrades it needs to make as well as with future plans. ALSO READ: No clarity on date for farm pound leaves cattle on roads “We want to put up holding kennels in rural areas, with a field officer stationed at every one of these to assist the community as well as to educate them about how to treat their animals. For this, however, we need money,” Botha said, adding that most of what they have done thus far was thanks to generous donations. The excavation that was done to provide a dam for stray geese. Their first priority, however, is to take care of the animals they have – which can also be a struggle. “We have about 30 adoptions a month but we also take in about 300 animals a month that we need to care for.” Botha confirmed that their overall food supply is only at about 20 per cent. The CMLM did not respond to enquiries regarding the grant or when the farm pound status will be awarded. To make donations, phone the shelter on 013-753-3582, go to the Nelspruit SPCA Facebook page or visit 6 Meidlinger Street. ALSO READ: SPCAs with pound status a possible solution for stray cattle problem