With the double bedroom challenge, double bathroom challenge and the master bedroom challenge all complete it was time for Season 5 Win a Home Design Duos to take on the kitchen! Episode 8 kicked off with the Design Duos meet their mentor for this monumental challenge. Mark Reilly, is a Director at the world-renowned ARRCC interior design studio based in Cape Town. With years of experience and numerous awards to his name the Duos couldn’t be in better hands. As with all the challenges collaboration is key and for the kitchen challenge the Win a Home Design Duos paired up with three key local designers. Team Contrast Control paired up with Dean Sossen, a local interior designer. Team R&K joined forces with Nikki Schomer, the owner of Gold Bottom Pots and Team Perma Peeps teamed up with Ashleigh Lloyd Wedlake, owner & designer at Ashlee Lloyd Design Studio. As well as being mentored by ARRCC’s Mark Reilly the Duos were also given key advice and feedback from Marius Classens, owner CosiHome which specialises in quality kitchen design and installations. To get their creativity flowing and to find out more of what people are looking for when it comes to kitchens that add value to homes, the Duos browsed through some of the top listings on the Private Property website. With each Duo set out to impress not only the judges but also their mentor and their magazine clients with well designed kitchens that increase the value of their apartments and tick all the right boxes the pressure is on. The big question is; will they be able to get it all done before the big reveal? Remember to vote for your favourite Design Duo by visiting the Private Property website. Each vote counts as valid entry into the grand prize draw where you stand the chance of winning a Designer Penthouse Apartment at Balwin Properties luxurious Paardevlei Lifestyle Estate worth R3 million! You get one vote/entry per day and each entry also puts you in the draw to win amazing weekly prizes. Up for grabs this week is:
A Weylandt’s shopping voucher worth R5000, a ScanPan set of pots worth R8000 or a Philips Air Fryer. You also stand the chance of winning a Samsung 12kg front loader washing machine with AddWash and Eco Bubble Technology and Smart Control valued at over R15 000. Contestants that are also Capitec clients qualify to answer a simple question about responsible banking and stand the chance of winning an additional cash prize. To enter click here. 