 MBOMBELA – According to police spokesman Brig Leonard Hlathi, personal safety is a matter of shared responsibility between authorities and members of the public. This is to  ensure that your shopping experience is safe, they offered a few safety tips: Be vigilant at all times. Remember that along with the excitement of catching a good bargain comes thieves and scammers just looking to take advantage of busy shoppers. Keep your cash and valuables safe. #CarryingCashSafely
Carry as little cash as possible. Consider the convenience of paying your accounts electronically (consult your bank to find out about other available options)
Consider making use of cell phone banking or internet transfers or ATMs to do your banking
Use alternative banking methods such as Internet Banking and Cellphone Banking #ATMSafety
Always cover your pin by shielding the hand that is typing it – even if you are alone at an ATM. Never accept help or ask anyone to assist you at the ATM – rather go inside the bank for help Online shopping and mobile money
Register for 3D secure, otherwise known as verified by Visa or Mastercard SecureCode before making online purchases with your bank card Be cautious of notifications that you have won any competitions, especially if you did not enter – do not respond with any personal information Put sensible transaction limits on your accounts. Only provide your credit card details to reputable companies. If it looks too good to be true, it usually is. NEVER send money or give credit card or online account details to anyone you do not know and trust. Personal safety – Be crime conscious – be aware of crime opportunities at all times!
Be vigilant when in congested shops or shopping aisles where you cannot even walk properly, that is where you will find criminals pick pocketing. Avoid displaying valuables where criminals can see them. Keep your handbag with you, keep it closed or zipped, and do not leave it unattended. Keep your mobile phone with you and do not leave it unattended. Carry your wallet in an inside pocket – never in the rear pocket of your trousers. Credit card transactions must be processed in your presence.