 BARBERTON – Former EFF chief whip in the City of Mbombela Local Municipality, Cllr Lucky Shongwe, has rejoined the ANC. Shongwe claimed that he was expelled from the EFF in August for “no apparent reason”. “I was expelled just few days before the party provincial congress. My sin, I think, was that some within the political party wanted me to contest in the congress. This didn’t sit well with others within the party,” Shongwe explained. He said he had had no intention to contest any positions during the provincial congress. In a video that has been circulating on social media networks, Shongwe is seen walking next to ANC member of parliament, Paul Mashatile. Read More: https:100-days speech does not materialise This was during the Thuma Mina campaign in Emjindini last Sunday, when the party’s national executive committee and national working committee visited the area. In the video Shongwe is overheard introducing himself, confirming his expulsion from the EFF. “My name is Lucky Shongwe, a former PR councillor of the EFF in the City of Mbombela and a chief whip of the EFF in the City of Mbombela. I was expelled for no reason. Now I have seen that I took a wrong step. Actually, I went to be adopted by the wrong parents. I know very well where I come from. I’m back home in the ANC, and I’m not coming alone.” Shongwe is a qualified teacher and prior to taking the EFF chief whip position on a full-time basis, he worked at Barberton Secondary School. He said he regretted quitting teaching as he found himself stressed in his political position. “As the chief whip of the EFF I found myself financially stressed. The party has no resources. To execute my duties, I found myself spending more money from my pocket. I ended up paying the EFF myself for doing their work instead of vice versa,” Shongwe elaborated. According to him, many EFF members in Barberton have joined him in crossing over to the ANC. “We are busy arranging a huge welcoming ceremony for EFF members to the ANC. There is a mass exodus of members from the EFF who will join the ANC, given the high degree of unhappiness among its members,” he said. Collen Sedibe, EFF provincial chairman, confirmed that Shongwe and Michael Mbewe were expelled by the party. “Both of them were expelled for failing to execute their organisational programmes in line with the EFF public representative code of conduct. They have since been replaced by Vusi Gwebu and William Motha,” said Sedibe.