 It was held at the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency on Saturday.
Shivambu did not stay long, as he had to leave to attend another one in North-West. He failed to make any controversial statements, and only spoke to the SABC before rushing off. Members of the public raised their concerns about various issues. Carlison Nyalunga, a vendor from Hazyview said he is not happy with the way government treats them. “If we get the support we need, we will be able to sell our products properly. We make beautiful things. We are asking for help. We need proper stalls to sell our products and we also need proper marketing,” he said. ALSO READ:Ex-EFF chief whip returns to the ANC Khethiwe Mndawe said she is concerned with the research conducted with regard to the people who were recently honoured in the renaming of buildings at the legislature.
“Not everyone was honoured.  Some people were left out and something should be done. There are so many things that were not done right. Even the statue, there are issues around it,” she said.
Some people raised their concerns about being SAPS reservists, alleging that they were promised jobs, yet they are still not employed on a permanent basis. Shivambu urged the government to support small-scale businesses in the tourism industry.   “Tourists visit the communities with the intention to spend money. We cannot have multinational hotel groups owning all the hotels that accommodate all the tourists who come to Mpumalanga. The people in the province must be supported so that they can build better quality guest houses, hotels and lodges where tourists can stay. Government must support our people. We cannot have Mpumalanga as a tourist province but it does not benefit the people,” he said. “When we take over as government, we are going to support small-business enterprises,” Shivambu said.
“You can go home and tell them that we will support them. Government needs to support the people with all the things they need.
He promised that the party would follow up on the issue raised on the day.