 Patient care at Rob Ferreira Hospital is plunging to new depths. Awaiting claims against the provincial Department of Health are threatening to further hinder service delivery. The Auditor-General (AG) found health services in the province “poor” in his reports into provincial departments for the 2017/18 year, which were released on Wednesday. The department reported the highest amount in claims, R7,9 billion, which is 156 per cent of the budget which commenced in April. It cannot budget for these claims so has to pay them using funds earmarked for the delivery of health services.
Health was also among the four provincial departments which contributed most to Mpumalanga’s irregular expenditure. The AG further made significant findings against the department’s poor storage, stock management practices, shortages of staff, insufficient training, and medical equipment that was not in good working order.  Patients at Rob Ferreira attested to these issues. Bad service, dirty linen and ill-treatment are some of the issues taxpayers say they face on a daily basis.
Unacceptable treatment Leon Verster’s 89-year-old ill mother was admitted last Saturday. They arrived at the hospital at 09:30 and she was assisted at 18:00. “She was left undressed and the curtains were left open so people could see her. My wife tried to cover her up and the nurses told her to leave her like that. They do not consider the dignity of their patients and they are rude. The security guard also shouted at my wife. He told her to f*@% off. “The way they treat patients is unacceptable, and someone needs to do something about it,” Verster said. His mother has no medical aid and has no pension fund. Her condition has not changed. Rude staff Tinkie de Jager recently took her son to hospital for an operation. After his procedure he had 35 staples in his back and he asked a nurse to help him with the blood flowing down his leg, but she refused. He could not not stand or sit due to his pain. She had to watch her son cry in pain and beg for help. “He also had to ask them for painkillers, since they did not give him any,” De Jager said. “While he was sleeping at midnight one of the staff members started cleaning and moving things in his room. He asked her to clean in the morning so that he could rest. This was a few hours after his operation. She answered that hospitals are not places for resting. This surprised us since he just came out of theatre and needed to rest,” she said.  Waiting for surgery
Miranda Grant (58) said she was recently informed that she should return after six years to get a hip replacement, as the hospital does not have funds to perform the procedure. “They said there are other people who have been waiting for more than 10 years. It is not easy because my daughter-in-law died and she left five kids who I have to take care of. My son has no one to help him except me and we cannot afford a nanny, so I have to be strong for the kids while he is trying to put food on the table.” Grant gets around using crutches. “Life has been hard since the day I fell. I cannot do the things I used to do. All I want is for the hospital to help because I am really struggling. My next appointment is in February 2019 and the doctor told me just maybe if I am lucky the six years can be decreased to two,” she explained. “I cannot afford a medical aid since I am unemployed and this hospital is the only place that can assist – yet they are telling me to wait in pain.”   Administration
During a visit by Lowvelder, one of the issues raised by patients, who preferred to remain anonymous, was the administration of the hospital. According to one patient, she arrived very early in the morning with a bad toothache but she only received her file in the afternoon. She was not the only one raising concerns. Many other patients also waited for their files. Some tried to find out what the problem was but could not get any answers. “I have being sitting here since the morning, but I saw people who came after me getting their files and assistance before me. Even if you wake up early they still assist you late,” she explained. The patients said when they enquire from the nurses and other staff members, the attitude they get is poor. “We do not know what to do because we fear that they might not assist us or worse, keep us waiting just to punish us,” the patient explained.  During a press conference after his tabling of the province’s adjustments budget last week, MEC for finance, Sikhumbuzo Eric Kholwane said theatres were not operational. He reassigned R14,5 million of the department’s allocation specifically for it to acquire additional materials for sterilisation of medical equipment. “We have rearranged the money and prioritised the things that the people are complaining about,” Kholwane said.
“We also rearranged R50 million for the maintenance of health infrastructure.”  Dumisani Malamule, spokesman for the Department of Health, said Rob Ferreira had “no financial challenges, because in every new financial year all hospitals receive a new budget to ensure that there is service delivery”. The department acknowledged that it was aware of some staff members’ attitude towards patients. Malamule said not all personnel displayed a negative attitude. Malamule said cleaners work according to shifts and can sometimes work at night.
“It must be noted that the department needs to maintain a positive status of keeping the hospitals clean for hygiene purposes and infection control. The hospital has enough linen and when it is dirty it is constantly changed.
“If anyone’s privacy is taken away from them, they should report it because we maintain a policy of privacy for our patients. It is not allowed that nurses refuse to help patients. They must be assisted at all times and in a dignified manner,” he explained.
“Grant’s condition is not life-threatening that is the reason why she was given that date. It is, however, not true that she can only be assisted after five years,” he added. AfriForum recently laid criminal charges against Dr Savera Mohangi, the head of the Hennie Bekker, over the department’s irregular expenditure of R5 billion incurred in the 2016/17 financial year.
It also incurred fruitless and wasteful expenditure amounting to R2,3 million in the same year. “AfriForum is of the opinion that the misuse of taxpayers’ money is a national crisis,” said Hennie Bekker, AfriForum’s district coordinator for the Lowveld. “The charges against the department heads are based on alleged financial misappropriation.
“They must prevent irregular, fruitless, wasteful and unauthorised expenditure and must hold guilty parties accountable. The department heads let taxpayers down by failing to fulfil their duties,” said Bekker. Malamule acknowledged the charges. “We believe that it is every person’s or entity’s right to take action or report any matter to authorities where they feel there is an element of breaking the law. The department will allow the law to take its course on this matter.”