On the back of a successful website re-launch, South Africa’s premier online retail aggregator Guzzle, which allows consumers to browse the best deals from South Africa’s largest retailers, has just launched its business-to-business app that will allow local businesses to create catalogues on the fly. “Not many small to medium businesses have the capital available for large advertising campaigns which is partly why Guzzle has launched a dedicated app for these businesses. This will allow them to create and share their own digital catalogues directly to Guzzle right from their mobiles, and in the process increase their bottom line,” says Joint CEO of SPARK Media Marc du Plessis. Through the Guzzle app, catalogues can be created using predefined templates which showcase up to eight products at a time.
“The purpose of this new development is to allow SME’s the ease and affordability to create catalogues while having the opportunity to have these catalogues to potentially be seen by the hundreds of thousands of monthly Guzzle browsers who come to the site looking for the best deals within their specific geographic areas,” says Guzzle’s General Manager, Muntasir Bester. “It’s a great exposure opportunity for small businesses. We know that in order for any brand (national or local) to be part of a consumer’s consideration set, they need to be seen as broadly as possible, which is exactly how the Guzzle app will serve them. We encourage all SMEs to download the app and share their catalogues to the website,” he says. “All SME owners who create catalogues using the app will receive regular emails detailing how many potential customers have viewed their catalogue as the month passes to measure ROI. We’re looking forward to making a real difference to the success of our registered SMEs.” For more information on the app or to get started, contact 021 286 5464, or send an email to dtp@guzzle.co.za. SPARK Media DNA
Established in 2015, SPARK Media, a division of CTP Ltd, are experts in retail and location-based marketing solutions. The company owns and represents a myriad of print and digital products that deliver locally relevant, effective audiences for advertising clients. SPARK Media are Strategic Partners in Audience Research and Knowledge and offer ‘Insights that Ignite’. 