 MBOMBELA –  Her family requested that the 69-year-old woman not be named for fear of possible reprisal. She lives on a wildlife estate at Renosterkop, just outside  the city. Police spokesman, Capt Zandile Gqawa said the incident happened between 01:00 and 02:00.  “The woman was sleeping when she heard noises coming from outside, so she went to check.” Gqawa said the woman saw two unknown men outside the house. They broke down the door and punched her in the face, knocking her down. The suspects then stabbed her repeatedly in her shoulder and one of her arms.
Gqawa said the suspects stole her cellphone and tablet and then fled the scene. Hi-Tech Security medical services paramedic, Tristan van Huyssteen, said they treated her for lacerations on the scene.  “They hit her in the face with their fists. They also hit her with a chair,” said Huyssteen. She was transported to Rob Ferreira Hospital. Bossies Community Justice’s Albert Gryvenstein said when he arrived at the scene the victim had already gone to the hospital and police were on the scene. “I think they entered the property by breaking the main gate’s lock,” he said. Nelspruit Concerned Citizen’s (NCC) John Meintjies said they were shocked to only find out about the incident on Thursday, after a photo of the bloodied woman started circulating on social media. “We only found out when it went viral on social media that an elderly lady was attacked on a farm near Nelspruit. “Normally we would have had all the security companies and various crime- fighters out at the scene assisting police to find the suspects,” he said. A source close to the investigation stated that two weeks ago, another woman was also attacked in her house and stabbed in the hand with a screwdriver, not far from the recent incident. Friends and family members commented on social media that she received 30 stitches on one arm and a few on her other one. She had eight stitches on her head and was stabbed in the back/shoulder area. They reported that she had partly lost feeling in her right hand. She will be undergoing an operation today. Lowvelder visited her in hospital, where the family declined to speak to the newspaper.
AfriForum Nelspruit’s Doep du Preez said they were struggling to get in touch with the family as their organisation normally supplies free medical and psychological counselling to victims. “We normally also have a medical system wherein one pays R90 per month then it covers medical costs in an event of a farm attack, but it all depends on the case. We just here to help if they will let us,” said Du Preez. “Police are still investigating the matter. No arrests have been made so far,” Gqawa concluded.