 Local youth showcased their amazing talent at the E3 youth development hub on Friday. They were celebrating the first group of participants who completed their three-month learning programme. E3 is a public benefit organisation that provides a learning space for young people in Mbombela.E3 stands for educate, empower and enlighten. ALSO READ:Millions set aside for youth development It opened its doors in August and was founded by Iris Felix and Catherine Churchill. The two of them have more than 20 years of experience in the academic and development sectors, and these are some of the things that gave them the foundation for E3.  Felix said the learning programme is designed for the youth to gather, network, learn, grow and ignite positive change. “The programme is also designed to support the talents and aspirations of local youth who want to further their education, find meaningful employment or start a business of their own. We have a maximum of 15 participants per programme and we are celebrating the first group. “We are fortunate to have had a broad range of business leaders and passionate professionals who volunteered their time to share their experience and expertise,” said Felix. Khanysile Maseko, one of the young people who completed the programme, said she learned how to ask questions and push on when she sees the need. ALSO READ:Successful youth development “I learned a lot about myself and my weaknesses. Now I am able to go into business situations knowing exactly where I stand. Business can be hard so mastering my style of business was also essential. I am planning to pursue my dancing and singing career.  I always wanted to open an academy but never knew where to begin, and my plan is to pursue my dream. Big or small, I now have direction,” said Maseko.
Prospective applicants were also invited during the celebration. Audacity Shakoane said he is excited about the possibility of being an applicant in 2019. He plays guitar, sings and dances.
“I am glad I came here. I will have the opportunity to grow my network and learn more. Looking at how talented they are, I will surely improve,” he said.