 Mpumalanga Heritage said in a media release it has great concerns about the manner in which funds from the limited budget of the Department of Sports, Arts and Culture were spent. Indications are that this money was also spent on expenses outside the heritage sphere. Chairman of Mpumalanga Heritage (MH), Duncan Ballantyne said he also became aware of some public concerns about the aesthetic merits of the six-metre bronze sculpture, though this is of less importance to this organisation. According to the latest news reports, some elements of the statue such as the head, an arm and the outfit will be fixed at no additional costs. The statue was made by local artist Michael Canadas and was cast at his foundry outside White River. According to reports, a price was negotiated by the Department of Sports, Arts and Culture, which was far less than the disputed amount of R8 million which finally changed hands with an unknown facilitator by the name of Mishkah Theron. ALSO READ: Premier says Mandela statue has failed its intended objective The 25-year-old Theron, operating from a residential address in Mbombela, referred all enquiries about herself and her abilities as service provider to the department. Apparently she is the daughter of a well-known Mbombela businessman. An example of Theron’s previous experience in dealing with statues and public memorials cited by the department was the Saul Mkhize statue in Gert Sibande District. Mpumalanga Heritage is a civic organisation operating as a registered NPO consisting of paid-up members. It is affiliated with the Heritage Association of South Africa (previously The Simon van der Stel Foundation) and enjoys representation on its board of directors. ALSO READ: MEC under scrutiny for Nelson Mandela statue tender Since the statue was unveiled on September 25 this year, Mpumalanga Heritage has been following reports about this project in the media. These indicate either the Department of Sports, Arts and Culture’s inability or unwillingness to explain or disclose this matter, amid rumours indicating that only a portion of the money was allocated to this project. Ballantyne said he is indeed aware of the limited funding set aside in the provincial budget for heritage projects in Mpumalanga. He is also aware of the dereliction, followed by the inadequacy, of the department to maintain and care for its heritage assets and responsibilities. ALSO READ: R8.3 million Nelson Mandela statue: Where did the money go? Mpumalanga Heritage recently teamed up with the Lowveld and Escarpment Fire Protection Association (Lefpa) to clear the site and repaint the palisade fencing of the mass grave in Waterval Boven of the 63 Mozambican mine workers who tragically lost their lives on Wednesday November 16, 1949, in one of the worst rail disasters ever to have occurred in South Africa. The memorial at the site of disaster at the Elands River was also re-erected and reinforced. Ballantyne requested the Department of Sports, Arts and Culture, and all involved with this matter, to be transparent about the costs of this project and to bring whatever the situation is out into the open. The department did not respond to Lowvelder’s questions on the matter at the time of going to press.