 The Mpumalanga Economic Growth Agency (MEGA) does not have the R1,2 billion needed to complete the Mpumalanga International Fresh Produce Market. The agency has also postponed the completion date by three years.This is according to Desiree Ntshingila from MEGA.  In February MEGA said the estimated completion date was the end of 2019, although now she now said it will be completed by early 2022. ALSO READ:Cost of International Fresh Produce Market doubles The cost of the market has exceeded the initial estimates that were announced when the project was started.
In 2013 the Department of Agriculture, Rural Development, Land and Environmental Affairs estimated that the market would cost R1 billion over five years.
In 2015 MEGA said R2 billion would be required to complete the project. The agency is now negotiating with the Industrial Development Corporation to fund the shortfall of approximately R1,2 billion, said Ntshingila. These funds are for the commencement of the construction of the market buildings (top structures) project. Five years ago MEGA announced its plan of creating a market for the province’s fruits and vegetables.
In the past months there have been numerous setbacks with subcontractors protesting due to delays in their payments. ALSO READ:Striking workers fed up with being paid late At some point the subcontractors were holding a site manager, Yeashiel Mabudeo, against his will at Mpumalanga Fresh Produce. “We are still under phase one, until the market is completed and operational. Phase two may be done if and when the market needs to be extended but until then its now referred to as construction phase,” said Ntshingila.  She insists that the market is on schedule and everything is going well. Ntshingila said that a special allocation of R320,6 million was reserved for the market. ALSO READ:Protest leads to R37 closure “It is for the completion of the bulk earthworks project, roads and storm water. The bulk earthworks project has been completed and the roads and storm-water project will be completed at the end of February 2019. The bulk earthworks project cost was R149,8 million. The roads and storm-water project is costed at
R201,8 million. Both projects have been funded by the Mpumalanga government,” she said. Ntshingila said that MEGA also contributed funds for the project. The site for the construction of the market buildings project was handed over to the main contractor on October 3.
They appointed ENZA Construction (Pty) Ltd. Their scope of work was to build the MIFPM top structures.
The contractor, Liviero Civils (PTY) Limited was appointed for the installation of civil engineering bulk services such as water, sewer and road networks. This started in February 2017.
• The Auditor-General of South Africa tabled the 2017/18 Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) report on Wednesday.  The report states that the province transferred part of the government nutrition programme to MEGA as an implementing agent for health and education. This was done to fast track growth opportunities for poor farmers and cooperatives. MEGA did not have the capacity to carry out this function and appointed a service provider, says the report. They did this without following supply chain management (SCM) prescripts. This, according to the report, contributed to the increase of irregular expenditure of R147 million incurred by MEGA in 2017/18. MEGA also struggled to pay its creditors. It took the entity 175 days on average to settle its accounts and if this is not resolved this could lead to fruitless and wasteful expenditure due to interest and penalties.