Win a Home is getting into the Black Friday spirit with its biggest weekly competition to date. On Thursday 22 November 2018, as a pre-Black Friday special, Win a Home will have over R90 000 in prizes up for grabs for one lucky viewer. Prizes include a Siemens fully automatic coffee machine from Loot worth R16 200, a R10 000 Weylandts voucher, a Tempur Sensation Supreme Queen bed set from Vencasa valued at R50 000, two Samsung Gear IconX Fitness Earbuds and R10 000 cash from Capitec. To stand a chance of taking part in Win a Home’s ‘Open the Door’ challenge and winning a share of these incredible prizes, enter on the Private Property website by voting for your favourite Win a Home Design Duo. If your name is drawn you will be called to take part in the live Win a Home ‘Open the Door’ challenge where you get to pick one of three possible doors, each with an incredible prize behind it. You will then have the chance to answer a simple product-related question to win two Samsung Gear IconX Fitness Earbuds. Finally, if you are a Capitec client and can answer a simple question related to responsible lending you stand the chance of also winning R10 000 cash! By entering the Win a Home weekly competition you will also be automatically entered into the Win a Home Grand Prize draw where you stand the chance of winning the final finished penthouse apartment of your favourite Design Duo valued at over R3 Million. The apartments are all situated on the spectacular Paardevlei Lifestyle Estate by Balwin Properties in Somerset West. This beautifully designed pet-friendly estate has 24hr security and an on-site Lifestyle Centre which features a gym, concierge, laundromat, restaurant and swimming pool. With only one final designer challenge left for the Win a Home Design Duos to complete and less than a month left before the Win a Home Grand Finale on 13 December, there has never been a better time than now to get your entry in and stand the chance of winning this life changing prize! What are you waiting for? Enter here!