 BARBERTON – The Barberton Department of Correctional Services’ (DCS) abattoir was recently acknowledged as one of the most improved in the province.
This was during the Mpumalanga Abattoir Rating Scheme Awards earlier this month. The ceremony was hosted by the Mpumalanga Department of Agriculture, Rural, Land and Environmental Affairs (Dardlea) at Nooitgedacht Research Farm in the Gert Sibande District. According to Mesia Hlungwani, DCS spokesman, the provincial abattoir rating scheme is voluntary, which ensures competitive and compliant to abattoir legislation in the entire province. He said prior to the ceremony, Dardlea dispatched a team of veterinary officials to conduct audits on abattoirs and, consequently, the most compliant ones were rewarded. “This ceremony is organised to encourage meat producers to produce quality and healthy meat. During the ceremony, Barberton DCS scooped the most improved abattoir in the province. They received a bronze medal and two certificates of recognition,” added Hlungwani. He said in their category, the DCS abattoir was competing with private, local ones. He said theirs managed to scoop this award due to their commitment to the Meat Safety Act and regular maintenance. The area commissioner of the Barberton correctional facilities, Solomon Netshivhazwaulu, appreciated the recognition and indicated that this shows that the department is committed to delivering effective and efficient services. Read More:  Abattoir rated as one of the best “The accolade shows that DCS complies with the Meat Safety Act and the hygiene standards governing the environment. The abattoir of the department is used to produce red meat for offenders incarcerated in correctional facilities within the Ehlanzeni District and other districts in the province. It is further used to train offenders in meat production,” said Netshivhazwaulu. He said the offenders were enrolled into a six-month short course where they receive thorough training regarding how meat is produced. “Upon completion they receive certificates, which will assist them in seeking employment after serving their sentences or opening their own businesses. Producing red meat internally saves the department a significant amount of money,” added Netshivhazwaulu. The Barberton correctional facilities also has other agricultural products which include a piggery project. There is also a dairy project and bakery. The local correctional services is quite self-sufficient, as many daily consumables are produced internally.