 Spring and summer is a time to celebrate after being cooped up inside during the long, cold winter months. In September, October and November especially, the pollen levels in Mpumalanga are very high. Good news is that it is expected to soon subside. Department calls for serious water conservation efforts Tree pollen may trigger allergic rhinitis, or a runny nose, hay fever and red, itchy eyes and these symptoms usually occur seasonally. According to the Allergy Foundation of South Africa, symptoms to tree pollen are most often seen in springtime but may occur during the summer and autumn months. The Mpumalanga tree pollen season was last measured in 2009 and peak counts were seen from September to November. In Mpumalanga, the oak, plane and pine trees are the biggest contributors to the seasonal discomfort. Things to remember before you press that ‘send’ button Pinus or pine trees are the biggest contributors in the Lowveld as they have been planted throughout South Africa and is especially abundant here. Pine pollen is large and has two air sacs which make it buoyant. It is easily transported by wind and may travel some distance from its source, sometimes settling as a pale yellow deposit on cars and buildings. Although pine is not a major allergen, it produces large quantities of pollen and may trigger conjunctivitis in spring when the tree pollinates.  Not only tree pollen, but grass pollen and weed pollen counts are particularly high this time of year. Here are some tips to deal with pollen allergies. – Avoid pollen as much as you can, which means not going outside early in the morning when pollen counts are usually the highest. If you have to go out, wear a hat and sunglasses to keep pollen out of your hair and eyes. Avoid bringing pollen inside by washing your clothes, body, and hair as soon as you come inside. – Wipe down tables outside and inside. Vacuum your carpets regularly, at least once a week. Also wash the car, and clean the car door handles, and outside doorknobs. Pollen stick to just about everything and you could transfer pollen from your hands to your eyes. This could lead to a severe allergic reaction for some people. – Decontaminating at the end of the day is important. Take a shower and put on clean clothes. Put used clothes in the laundry room – do not bring contaminated clothes into your bedroom.
– Allergy-proof your home and vehicle. Keep your windows closed and rather use the air-conditioner. It will filter out pollen and help you breathe better. – Drink an oral antihistamine. If you feel that your symptoms are primarily around your nasal passages, add a steroid nasal spray. It may take at least five days to kick in, but eventually it will help decrease inflammation in your nasal passages and reduce symptoms in your nose, sinuses and throat. If you have symptoms in your eyes, try an over-the-counter antihistamine eye drop to help combat watery eyes and redness. – Saline nasal sprays and saline eye drops can help get pollen out of your nasal passages and eyes. Use it at least every two hours. No one allergy solution will work for everyone. You may have to try more than one combination of solutions before finding your perfect combo. It is advisable to see your doctor should you have any conditions that may be exacerbated by your pollen allergy. There are however, other triggers too   