 TONGA – The funeral service for four of the 15 victims was held at Holiness Union Church (Center) at Mzinti on Saturday. The provincial government assisted to arrange the funeral for the 12 victims who hailed from Nkomazi. Private ceremonies were held for the other four victims on Friday and Sunday. SEE MORE: Here are the names of the victims who died on the N4 During the official service, deputy minister of transport, Sindisiwe Chikunga warned motorists not to speed. “A total of 75 per cent of males die in road crashes in South Africa and 55 per cent involved are private cars.  “National roads are beautiful compared to small roads, which have potholes that might cause accidents, but national roads still claim many lives due to bad driver behaviour.” She added that using a cellphone while driving causes accidents too.  “Stop texting and driving. Technology is good for all of us, but it is killing us on the other hand. We must use it wisely. “Parents must make sure they have a word with their children after buying cars. “It’s important to congratulate them in their acquisition of their first cars, but do not forget to talk to them about drinking and driving. It is a bad habit.” Chikunga appealed to survivors to claim directly from the Road Accident Fund (RAF) and not through unscrupulous lawyers, “who are only interested in taking large chunks of money”.  MEC for safety, security and liaison, Pat Ngomane warned young, inexperienced drivers against alcohol use. “These accidents ensue during the wee hours, and running tests, alcohol is involved. Young people, be responsible. Fun can be had without driving after using alcohol.”  Ngomane wished the survivors a speedy recovery. Speaking on behalf of the premier, MEC for culture, sport and recreation, Thandi Shongwe said that people who cause accidents should be jailed with no bail. “Law-enforcement agencies should be harsher on traffic offenders in order to reign in reckless drivers.”  Moses Makamu (34) was arrested at the scene of the accident. He has been charged with culpable homicide and drunk driving. He was released on bail of R2 000. He is set to reappear in court on November 29. READ MORE: Driver involved in 15-fatality accident released on bail