 This year’s annual VW Vintage Car Festival at Kaapsehoop came with a twist. I’ll hash tag it – #chillyweatherglühweinspectacular! Yes folks. Fortunately most of the enthusiasts who participated grew up when playing in the rain was the lead story at family gatherings in the evening.  Where bean soup and home-made bread – with or without butter, fig jam and or peanut butter – were like the national trend and sharing happened totally without any fanfare or counting hits, clicks and page views. Bellbottoms, headbands, wet clothes, a discomfort in the knees and clattering dentures – well, not really but I mean, I am trying to be colourful in my rendition of an era, which I hope would one day recycle back to the future like all eras and trends seem to be doing.  I am sure that the good Dr Jack, our local cartoonist extraordinaire, gets this picture in full colour and is putting his hand to paper as he reads this? Perhaps he should give us his day at the festival in a cartoon? When Kaapsehoop pulls the covers, it does so properly. It was cold, wet, muddy and unpleasant – right?  No, said all the above-described hippies, flower children and chillers of note. With the Kombi Keg at hand, and glühwein, some green spice/ bergpetersielie and Moringa plants on sale, it was a blast. The VWs came from all over. The one or two that presented some hiccoughs on the way, were simply hitched and arrived nevertheless.  It’s a ’50s thing this – get up and go, stay cool and hip… Pierre Eksteen, an avid supporter of the Guide Dog Association of South Africa, sold small blocks of space on his 1962 Kombi and has over the past two years donated some R20 000 to his charity. So every small artwork on this vehicle tells a story. Pierre is the owner of V DUB Tech and a specialist on, of course, Vdubs! He indicated that this Kombi is valued at about R3,5 million.  Can this be for real? Although it was wet and cold outside, inside Bohemian Groove Café it was a buzz – loud, crowded, energized and jovial. So much so that even the Kaapsehoop weather approved and decided to stay put.