 MBOMBELA – Long-time customer of Mopani Pharmacy Rina van der Westhuizen joined in the official opening of the dispensary at the pharmacy’s new branch on Friday. The pharmacy at Steiltes Centre is now totally open for business. Ewaldt Janse van Rensburg, pharmacist in charge at Steiltes Centre, said they are now able to dispense medication. The pharmacy initially opened its doors in May but only sold toiletries, vitamins, baby accessories and some basic cosmetics. Loyal Mopani Pharmacy customer, Rina van der Westhuizen receives her parcel from Ewaldt Janse van Rensburg, pharmacist in charge at the Steiltes Centre. It finally received its pharmacy licence from the Department of Health in October, which enables it to dispense medication and claim from medical aids. “We are very happy to be of service to the people who live and work around the area. We are here to serve. “We will continue to do that with passion, as we strive to be excellent in our professional service and conduct to our community,” said Janse van Rensburg. Read More: Hassle-free health at Mopani Pharmacy The first Mopani Pharmacy shop opened its doors on March 24, 1982. The store was
100 square metres with a staff complement of five. Van der Westhuizen was among the first customers when Mopani opened its doors all those years ago. She said she has been loyal to Mopani because the pharmacy has been loyal to her. “They are always willing to go the extra mile in satisfying their clients. The staff have always been friendly and they help you in a language that you understand,” she said. Also Read: Update: Schoolboy dies in Mopani Pharmacy “The opening of the new branch means that that I don’t have to worry about driving a long distance in order to get my medicine and other necessities from Mopani. “I stay around the corner from where this shop is situated.” The Steiltes branch is now the fourth Mopani Pharmacy in the area, joining the branches at i’langa Mall, Crossing Centre and White River. Its trading hours are Monday to Friday 09:00 to 18:00, Saturday 09:00 to 13:00, and it is closed Sundays. Mopani Steiltes can be reached on 013-590-7310.