African Elephant are at their most awe-inspiring in the wild, where these gentle giants can roam freely, interact with each other and engage with their young. Their great intelligence, fascinating behaviour, and emotions like grief and empathy touch us deeply, in helping us to relate, to identify, to feel, to heal, and to learn.  In an ideal world, there is no question that African Elephant belong in the wild. However, the world that we live in is less than ideal – necessitating expanded thinking and pro-active elephant conservation. Humans have caused enormous problems for elephant, and so must be actively involved in sustainable solutions.  Tembo, Shamwari, Ziziphus, Medwa, Lindiwe and Andile were six elephant in urgent need of relocation, or they faced being destroyed. Elephant Whispers made the commitment to provide a safe haven for the elephant to live for the rest of their natural lives by opening an education and tourism venue to secure the elephant’s future.  Each visitor to Elephant Whispers experiences a life-changing moment when they encounter the elephant, and the team work hard to translate this into an understanding of the need for long-term, sustainable wildlife conservation in general, and elephant conservation in particular.  Situated in the Sandford Conservancy on the banks of the Sabie River in Hazyview, Mpumalanga, Elephant Whispers offers an Elephant Experience of a lifetime which will leave you with a renewed respect and admiration for these gentle giants of Africa.  Visitors to the Centre learn about the extraordinary behaviour and physiology of the African elephant, observing first-hand how the elephant have developed trust in the kindness and care they receive from the team.  For those seeking a unique and memorable wildlife encounter, elephant activities at Elephant Whispers are an exciting and touching experience not to be missed.  From a wonderful interactive one hour Elephant Interaction, to walking with the elephant or even spending a full day with the elephant, the Elephant Whispers Team look forward to sharing the magic of the African Elephant with you.  For information on the activities at Elephant Whispers, please access the website – www.elephantwhispers.co.za.  You are most welcome to contact us for any special rates on offer.  While Elephant Whispers cannot solve all of the challenges facing the African elephant as a species, they remain committed to what they believe is an effective way of reaching large numbers of people – particularly the youthful future leaders of African wildlife conservation.  For people who have been blind from birth and never seen an elephant, it is extremely difficult to envision and appreciate the sheer size and incredible power of the African Elephant.  These visitors put their absolute trust in the Handlers and the elephant, experiencing a complete ‘tactile tour’ from the animal’s smooth tusks and the patterned ridges under their feet, to the wiry hair on their body and tail. Placing their fingers on the pulse in the elephant’s ears, blind guests can also feel the elephant’s breath and inhale their distinctive smell. Through touch they come to know elephant; an extraordinary gift.  Elephant Whispers believe that a broader conservation message can be entrenched and shared if people are inspired by the loving partnerships that are possible between humans and African Elephant.  Each day the team celebrate the privilege of sharing their lives with the elephant, and the contribution these six gentle giants are making for other elephant. Visit Elephant Whispers in Hazyview, Mpumalanga, South Africa. Contact them telephonically on 013 737 7876 or 082 498 4683 or via email at info@elephantwhispers.co.za. You can also visit their  website or like them on Facebook.