 MBOMBELA The latest additions to the personnel are eager to serve the community. After the retirement of Sr Rona Labushcagne, Sr Fazila Chauke is now filling the huge void she left. Sr Fazila Chauke is the new professional nurse at CANSA Lowveld. She has been here for about a month and her vision for CANSA is to change people’s mindsets. “I know that I have big shoes to fill, but I was privileged to learn from Sr Rona, and I hope I will be able to do as good a job as she did.” Born and bred in the Lowveld, Chauke was a professional hospital sister before she made her way to CANSA. amphosi Shawe started working at this CANSA branch in August last year as a social worker and community mobilser. She has a background in social work, focusing on rape and domestic violence. “I saw that there was a need here. In all my training I saw cancer in all its forms. Cancer knows no skin colour, race or gender, and I want to change that mindset of people who think it does.” Chauke will now be in charge of the clinic at CANSA, doing early cancer detection tests. She also has a mobile clinic she will take out to the rural areas. Pauline Möller is a community mobilser in the fund-raising department. She is not a new face in the CANSA crowd, but a trusted one indeed. She is known for fundraisers like the breast cancer walk that is held annually in October. “Rob Ferreira doesn’t offer the necessary treatment and patients have to get on a bus and go to Johannesburg. “They sometimes skip this because they do not have money or feel too weak or they try traditional medication that does not work for them. We want to educate the community in terms of medication and detection,” Chauke says. Eurika Mogane is the provisional coordinator of sustainability for Mpumalanga. In September she will have been at the CANSA office for two years. She has a passion for training volunteers for CANSA, as she was once a volunteer herself. Chauke is not alone in her mission. Ramphosi Shawe has also joined the team as a social worker and community mobiliser. Her background is mainly as a social worker for domestic violence and rape. “My dad passed away from cancer, and this is a way for me to honour his memory. During his illness we had no info at all. That is why I want to get info to the community and stand by them during the difficult times.” Thembi Ngwenya does the administration, manages the reception and helps with the finances in the office. She has been with CANSA for 15 years and is a cancer survivor herself. CANSA has launched support groups in Mbombela and Zwelisha.
Other new additions include Monique van der Westhuizen, who works as a community mobiliser, fund-raiser and events coordinator, as well as Mandisa Mthembu, who is the new divisional coordinator for service delivery for Mpumalanga. Mandisa Mthembu has held her current position of divisional coordinator for service development for only five months. She started out as a volunteer for CANSA and is also a qualified social worker. “My job is to oversee services like patient care, early detection tests and social workers. My wildest dream, and the dream for the whole organisation, is a world that is free of cancer,” Mthembu said. Monique van der Westhuizen has been part of the team for two months now in the community mobilisation team. She raises funds and coordinates events for the organisation and enjoys educating the public of cancer research. These new additions will join the current team consisting of Pauline Möller, Eurika Mogane and Thembi Ngwenya, who have been with CANSA Lowveld for 15 years. Together this branch of the CANSA organisation aims to work hand in hand with the community in the fight against cancer. READ ALSO: Identify potential threats early on with CANSA Lowveld