 There I was, sitting in a Jaguar, a quintessential British marque made famous by the euphonious and sonorous six-cylinder growl of its XK range of engines, that uttered no sound. No roar, no howl, nothing. Not even a whimper. Yet, despite all the raucous racket Jags have made up ’til now, this mute Coventry Cat may be the one that will growl the loudest of them all, the one creating huge noise in future for the Jaguar brand. Why? Well, in much the same way the XK engine family guaranteed Jaguar’s prospects for over 40 years, the new all-electric I-Pace could be the pace-setter that assures the sustainability of the marque. Jaguar I-PACE Global Drive, Portugal, 2018 I left for Portugal to meet the new I-Pace with a healthy dose of scepticism. But over a period of two days, driving the new Jaguar EV on an extensive selection of Algarve roads, my opinion changed. Dramatically so. Our test drive included technical corners on the flat asphalt of the international Algarve racetrack, twisting and winding road sections between the towns of Faro and Lagos, and a challenging off-road course, including a massive climb and a water crossing, and the I-Pace excelled on all surfaces. If this is the future of driving, I’m all for it… The new I-Pace is bigger than anticipated. It’s simple, elegant lines and cab forward design, long wheelbase and huge wheels contribute to the illusion of it being smaller, while in reality it is slightly larger than an E-Pace, albeit incrementally lower. Jaguar I-PACE Global Drive, Portugal, 2018 In terms of dimensions the Tesla Model S and X are slightly longer (4,9 and 5,1 metres respectively, versus 4,6 metres for the I-Pace) and the X is much higher, but the I-Pace has a 30mm longer wheelbase – giving it an advantage in terms of interior space and packaging. This is also why Jaguar’s design team went for a SUV-type design, taking full advantage of the electric powertrain architecture and maximise the potential of the packaging benefits it brings. Being part of the Pace-family, the I-Pace has some resemblance to the E-Pace, but its coupe-like silhouette is also influenced by the Jaguar C-X75 supercar, with a short, low bonnet, aero-enhanced roof design and curved rear screen. This contrasts with its squared-off rear, which helps reduce the drag coefficient to just 0.29Cd. Jaguar I-PACE Global Drive, Portugal, 2018 To optimise the balance between cooling and aerodynamics, Active Vanes in the token “grille” open when cooling is required, but close when not needed, redirecting air through the integral bonnet scoop to further smooth the airflow. Inside, the layout optimises space for passengers and luggage and while Jaguar classifies it as a mid-sized SUV, it has interior space comparable to that of a large SUV. Sitting in the rear you have a full 890mm of legroom, and there are storage places for your tablet or laptop beneath the seats. Also, with no transmission tunnel a useful 10,5-litre central storage compartment is available, and the rear luggage compartment offers a 656-litre capacity, and 1,453 litres with the rear seats folded flat. Jaguar I-PACE Global Drive, Portugal, 2018 The I-Pace uses a 90kWh Lithium-ion battery comprising 432 pouch cells to drive two synchronous permanent magnet electric motors – one on the front axle and one on the rear axle. Each motor fits concentrically around a compact, single-speed epicyclic transmission and differential, enabling instant and precise distribution of torque to the wheels. Combined, they produce 294kW of power and 696Nm of torque; and deliver sports- car type performance. With its instant torque delivery, you need to brace yourself when the zero-emission Jaguar takes off, sprinting from 0-100km/h in just 4,8 seconds – that’s as quick as a BMW X3 M40i or an Audi Q3 RS. But the real beauty is how this is achieved. There’s no drama. No noise. No whining gears or turbo whistle. It is smooth and linear, yet to feel that surge, that swoosh, is strangely exciting. Okay, there is some noise; electronically induced fake noise, barely audible as the speed increases. It can be amplified with the press of a button, and then emits a Tron-like sound which is (thankfully) not overpowering.  Jaguar I-PACE Global Drive, Portugal, 2018 The I-Power also produces a warning sound, much the same as that of a truck, when reversing, and according to Jaguar it can also be adjusted to emit sound while moving forward at slow speeds.
Top speed is limited to 200km/h but driving at full tilt seriously limits the battery pack’s range. At sensible cruising speed using Eco mode, the I-Pace can deliver a range of up to 480km (WLTP cycle) before recharging, according to Jaguar. The automaker also claims it will be possible to achieve a battery charge from empty to 80 per cent in just 40 minutes using DC rapid charging (100kWh) or top up an additional 100km in as little as 15 minutes. Jaguar I-PACE Global Drive, Portugal, 2018 Alternatively, home charging with an AC wall box (7kWh) will take the I-Pace from empty to 80 per cent in just over ten hours – ideal for overnight charging. Conceived as a high-performance EV, Jaguar’s engineers have placed the battery as low as possible between the axles, providing a low centre of gravity and 50:50 weight distribution, allied to a stiff aluminium chassis with torsional rigidity of 36kNm/degree – the highest of any Jaguar. On the road the I-Pace felt lithe, composed and planted, thanks to a compact, lightweight double wishbone front and integral link rear suspension with aluminium links and knuckles to reduce un-sprung weight and aid lateral stiffness. It is ably assisted by (optional) air suspension with Adaptive Dynamics, variable damping and self-levelling, giving the EV surprisingly high levels of balance and agility. Its ride comfort, even on low-profile 22-inch rubber, was a revelation, mostly owing to its long wheelbase. An electric booster gives its brake system more flexibility when blending (high or low) regenerative and mechanical braking, but it took a while to get used to the higher level of deceleration inherent to this system. Beside its dynamic traits the electric I-PACE also brims with new technology, being the first Jaguar to incorporate the Touch Pro Duo infotainment system with an innovative combination of touchscreens, capacitive sensors and tactile physical controls to operate key functions.