 Mechiel Brink, Principal at Seeff Nelspruit who has owned this branch with his wife Carien Brink since 2000, says the idea to merge was first raised in May 2018. A year ago both teams enlisted the highly respected property industry trainer and motivational speaker Trevor Gaw to train their Agents in Nelspruit. “Trevor Gaw is well-known for creating success stories in the Real Estate business and on his recommendation both Brands decided to merge and collaborate. We are now exclusively trained as one group by Gaw and will service the whole of Mpumalanga Lowveld with our new team of 15 residential agents”. Brink continues that the merge to Seeff’s offices will officially happen on 18 June and that this is also when the group as a whole will start trading as “Seeff Nelspruit”. Brink concludes that one of the main reasons for the merge from Seeff’s side is that there is certainly strength in unity and that the combined experience and expertise of the Seeff team as well as Melany van der Merwe (Principal of PIC) and her team will only benefit clients. Melany van der Merwe who has over 15 years’ experience in Real Estate is the founder of Melco Property Management and PIC and also won the award of Business Woman of the year in Mpumalanga in 2011. “My team consists of seven property portfolio specialists that have more than 30 years’ combined experience in residential, agricultural and commercial sales as well as in investment.
As the CEO of PIC it made sense to merge with the Seeff team in Nelspruit who serves the community with the same values as we do and I look forward to the new chapter and new successes”.
Carien Brink who will lead the Sales team adds that over the years Seeff Nelspruit has received numerous awards including Licensee of the year, Marketer of the Year and Shop Front of the year amongst others. “Seeff was founded in 1964 and has grown to a strong National and International Brand. The Seeff Nelspruit branch was established in 1998 and Mechiel and I have served property buyers and sellers in Nelspruit and surrounds since 1996. Our clients can rely on the Seeff Nelspruit branch to offer the same excellent service that became synonymous with the Seeff brand, but now they will also reap the rewards from the combined strengths of two estate agencies”.