Mpumalanga Economic Growth Agency (“MEGA”) owns 40% of Nkomati Anthracite (Pty) Ltd (“Nkomati”) and Sentula Mining Limited (“Sentula”) owns the remaining 60% of Nkomati through a 100% subsidiary, Benicon Coal (Pty) Ltd (“Benicon”). Nkomati Anthracite is situated in Mpumalanga located approximately 50 kilometres south of Komatipoort. It has 7,2 million tons of proven reserves and 4,4 million tons of indicated resources and holds the mining rights in respect of an anthracite mine. Anthracite is produced as a coke blend for domestic and export consumption, from opencast and underground operations. Nkomati is a sizeable employer in the region, with a current labour force of 151 people which includes about 20 underground employees. According to the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, the Nkomati mining operations are conducted on land that is owned by the following tribal authorities MEGA’s investment objectives in Nkomati are to ensure the mine’s financial viability and the quality of the asset, through an ongoing examination of operations, financial performance and financial position. Following the mandate given by the MEGA board, numerous engagements were held between MEGA, Sentula and the Industrial Development Corporation (“IDC”) the result of which was Nkomati successfully securing a recapitulation loan in the amount of R151,6 million from the IDC. The IDC loan agreement contains certain covenants and security provisions that are standard for an agreement of this nature. The advancement of the loan remains subject to various conditions precedent, including, inter alia The salient terms of the warehousing arrangement (SPV) will be contained in an amended shareholders’ agreement which shall be entered into between MEGA, Sentula and the SPV in due course in (“the Nkomati Shareholders’ Agreement”). The conclusion of the Warehousing Arrangement remains subject to Nkomati will issue new shares to the SPV for nil consideration, such that the SPV shall thereafter hold 16,1% of the share capital of Nkomati. Following implementation of the Warehousing Arrangement, MEGA in Nkomati will dilute from 40% to 33,56% while Sentula’s shareholding in Nkomati will dilute by 9,66% to 50,34%. The Nkomati expansion project (funded by the IDC) will create over 130 new jobs, the additional jobs created by Nkomati will go a long way in alleviating poverty in the region. MEGA is elated that the communities will acquire their shares in Nkomati at nominal value, which is in line with MEGA’s transformational agenda. The three surrounding communities will hold their 16.1% stake in Nkomati through the SPV and the stake will be split equally between the four communities. The job creation element also fulfils MEGA’s developmental agenda of stimulating the sustainable growth and development of the economy of Mpumalanga to reduce unemployment, poverty and inequality.