 An illegal taxi rank outside a car dealership is crushing a local business. Shane Mamile, the managing director of Link to Brands, said he is tired and something needs to be done to save his business. Local taxis have taken over the parking lot of Link to Brands, located at 39 Andrew Street, and are allegedly bullying surrounding business owners. ALSO READ:Still no inkling as to when taxi rank will open Mamile said a store next to his dealership recently closed down due to the situation, and he fears he could be next.
“We are being bullied and now our business is suffering,” he explained.  “We cannot even enter the premises for work, because the taxis have taken over the public parking and the parking on the premises. One of our customers had to call me and ask me to help him enter, since they were telling him that he cannot park outside since it is a taxi rank not a public parking.
“They litter everywhere, sit right next to our windows, make them dirty and we need to clean up after them. “It further makes our business less visible, which is a problem as we rely on walk-in customers.” Mamile added that the nightmare started in January when he was told that the taxi drivers are simply trying to recover from the loss they made during the Christmas holidays. “I believed it, but the situation keeps getting worse instead of better. The furniture shop next door had been trying to get help since February. They had to close due to a lack of business, because the taxis block their shop and prevent customers from entering it,” he said. Eddie Prollius, the manager of traffic services in the municipality, wrote in an email to Mamile dated April 10, that the City had deployed traffic officers in the area to monitor the situation and do law enforcement when necessary for the previous four months. ALSO READ:Frustration at transport hub standstill “As your business is alongside a public transport route, it can be expected that taxis will use the on-street parking from time to time to stop and pick-up passengers. “The on-street parking is public parking and not a taxi rank. The on-street parking may be occupied by any member of the public, even taxi operators. “This challenge is not unique to your business, as all the businesses in the old CBD, Andrew, Anderson, Bester and Henshall streets are affected, as the businesses in this part of the CBD do not have and/or provide customer parking on their premises; something that you may need to consider. “We undertake to continuously monitor the situation and do law enforcement if need be.” Municipal spokesman, Joseph Ngala confirmed that the taxi rank is illegal. There is a Bester Street taxi rank constructed by the City of Mbombela Local Municipality, which is unused. It began in August 2014. Last year  Lowvelder reported on the progress in construction of the terminus. This taxi rank is part of a multimillion-rand programme to develop a public-transport hub in the Mbombela CBD. A community member, who was found at the taxi rank, said the area is used for washing taxis. “They wash them, then move to the other side to get passengers,” he said. When Lowvelder enquired about the the newly built taxi rank, Ngala said he still needs time to enquire with the relevant department.