Whilst highly valid, the truth is that at Uplands we offer so much more than these ‘entrance to the game’ provisions. We provide a great internationally recognized qualification, an environment that is modern and progressive in view, a fresh and green outdoor lifestyle, a family environment and an exciting experience. Above all, as we focus on the identity of every child, we believe we are adept at seeing each in the crowd, to the extent that all become interested in and interesting to the world about them. Our wish to provide a world-class service has ensured that we provide and manage high-quality boarding facilities. Our resources and infrastructure are not only designed to enrich the education of students but are also provisioned to add value to their everyday life that extends far beyond the needs of the classroom.  We focus on innovative learning styles to provide students with a quality learning experience and, at the same time, encourage motivation, grit, and curiosity to grow an enthusiasm for self-discovery. Although such thinking skills are arguably a characteristic of most schools, our extended day ensures we have significantly more ‘time on task’ such that we provide access to a deeper education.  Boarders at Uplands come from all over the world. This means that in joining Uplands our students become part of a community that is entirely multicultural, multilingual and multi-ethnic. The benefits of living in this diverse environment are extensive; not only regarding our students’ education and experience but also in terms of our children’s understanding of modern society: its diversity and its cultural wealth. In living at Uplands our students gain: A diverse cultural knowledge Our students have the everyday opportunity to interact with other cultures, dealing directly with practices and traditions very different from their own. The deep knowledge of others that each receives helps our students succeed in an increasingly globalized world. An understanding of tolerance, respect, and solidarity Our children who live and study in our community acquire certain values that are highly beneficial for their personal growth. Life in the boarding house, surrounded by international friends, helps our pupils understand the importance of behaving with tolerance and respect.  Open-mindedness Probably the most notable benefit a student can get from attending Uplands, with its embrace of a global profile, is open-mindedness. To learn about other cultures and to be part of a diverse community demands that each lives an authentic cultural adventure, that each expands their vision, and that each becomes aware to and accepting of difference. Through meaningful experiences, our students are imbued with a readiness to learn new things, to be flexible to change and to seek out new concepts and ideas.  Should you be interested in exploring boarding at Uplands please contact our Marketing Manager, Mrs. Bev Du Preez (bdupreez@uplands.co.za) We look forward to hosting you and to illustrating our value within.