 The Alan Hudson Motors Group, which includes Palm Motors in White River and Volkswagen Highlands in Lydenburg, has creamed the competition in the annual VW Grand Prix dealer awards. “I really did not expect it. We have access to dealer performance information from January till October but then access is blocked. I watched this and thought, we are performing exceptionally well and if we don’t get it this year, I will have to register my concern to VW in writing,” says Juraj (George). “And well, by golly we did!” “I am utterly proud of our staff. This is a team effort par excellence. Our new Mbombela premise and location certainly contributed also, as we can, and do, now service 80 to 100 cars per day.” I remember, many years ago when I interviewed Juraj at the old location. He expressly stated at the time that there is no way he will invest in new buildings. But business has changed – the market demands have changed and now Alan Hudson owns, facility and space-wise, the largest dealership in the Southern Hemisphere. “The latter is important on many levels,” says dealer principal Lemmy Dolezal. “It offers the customer peace of mind and the security that he/she will be looked after for years to come. The investment has certainly also enhanced our business model.” “I have also realised and, perhaps this comes with age, the critical importance of employing the right people. It’s not just about the numbers.” But then this is what accountants/financial managers and CAs do – is it not? “The customer is your best marketing manager – it is them who generate repeat business – who recruit family and friends to buy from you. It is also true that one unhappy customer can destroy your CSI in less than 30 seconds. So we are extremely mindful of how we treat our customers,” says Juraj. To win the Dealer Micro Group of the Year, a group must have not less than two dealerships and contribute a minimum of 2% towards the national Volkswagen Dealer sales results. I think you should read this sentence again – this is a huge achievement! “We would like to thank every single one of our staff and customers. Without you, achieving the growth, setting benchmarks and winning awards would be impossible,” concluded Juraj and Lemmy. Palm Motors in White River For the team at Palm Motors, these awards are the result of “an intense no-compromise strategy focused on the customer”, which they embarked on at the beginning of 2017. “We worked strictly within what the parameters of our systems allowance. But yes, the long and the short is all about the right people in the correct positions,” says Dirk. And, says Shane: “It is about consistency – no grey areas but also managing with heart and compassion because we are all human.” “Fact is,” said Dirk, “we were so focused that if and when we did not achieve our daily targets, it was like somebody died.”  My dear reader, this may sound dreadful but if you know these guys, you will understand the former remark. “We work for a superb brand and the owners and Exco of the group all share authentic moral values in terms of integrity and honest methodologies. We understand the market we serve. We understand the lingo of our customers whether it be Oom ABC from Graskop to the young, vibe and upwardly mobile XYZ. We speak their language and we have a car that will fit their preferences like a glove,” says Dirk. “We want to be the best dealership with the friendliest staff in the business.” For Shane it is about doing those small and seemingly insignificant things which really cost nothing, consistently. It is clear that every staff member bought into the intention and focused passion expressed by management and thus the required, or rather preferred result (the awards), was achieved well in advance of the actual vetting process by VWSA. This is a powerful illustration of the power of thought, attention and intention. “Juanita is an old hand in the business. She has a passion for customer service and thinks out of the box. These two attributes, together with her excellent product knowledge and love for the brand, makes her a great leader,” said Dirk. Dealer Micro Group of the Year – Juraj Dolezal
Golden Pin – Lemmy Dolezal
Golden Circle Group Parts Manager – Lerike van der Vyver
Club of Excellence – Palm Motors
Customer Centricity Dealer Award – Palm Motors – Dirk van der Merwe
Golden Circle New Vehicle Sales Manager – Juanita Brinkman (Palm Motors)
New Vehicle Sales Manager of the Year – Juanita Brinkman
Golden Circle Service Manager Award – Shane Snyman
Passenger Service Manager of the Year (runner-up) – Shane Snyman.