 BARBERTON –  Kelvin Williams and Solomon Mwabaxe, both Tanzanian citizens, and Tebego Mapike, a South African, were arrested on May 19.
Police seized heroin with an estimated street value of R76,5 million in the vehicles they were allegedly travelling in on the R38 between Barberton and Badplaas.
According to the National Prosecuting Authority spokesman, Monica Nyuswa, each was granted bail of R10 000. The matter was postponed for further investigations until July 3.  MBOMBELA – The sentencing of three people found guilty in a R3 million corruption and fraud case involving a land claim from the Endlovini community is to continue on Wednesday.
Magistrate Sheila Msibi previously found Grace Mokoka, a former official in the Department of Agriculture, Rural Development, Land and Environmental Affairs (Dardlea), Jacob Zenzele Mncwango and Skhumbuzo Nkosi guilty on charges of theft, fraud and money laundering in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court.
Mkoko had misrepresented to Dardlea that Sadia Trading CC had done infrastructure development on two portions of the plots included in the Endlovini claim in 2012.  MBOMBELA – A sales manager who used to work for Imperial Toyota and was found guilty of fraud is set to appear for sentencing on August 1.According to the NPA, Mark Donovan Bezuidenhout (45) replaced the banking details of the dealership with his personal account. Toyota suffered a loss of R5 million resulting from the sale of vehicles between January 2011 and June 2014. Bezuidenhout pleaded guilty to fraud and was convicted.  MBOMBELA – A former magistrate is set to appear in court on various charges of fraud on Wednesday. Magriet Botha (55) from Magriet Botha Attorneys is facing
71 counts of fraud.
She is accused of faking garnishing orders to commit the fraud. State advocate, Patrick Nkuna, said Botha, as an attorney, collected debts for Sijabulile Finance Corporation, a micro-loan business owned by Vincent Meiring. According to Nkuna, Botha allegedly had samples of court stamps for the Nelspruit, Barberton, KaBokweni and White River courts.
Botha allegedly prepared the administration papers and various court orders and instructed two of her staff members to forge the signatures of clients of the cash-loan company.