This year it has done it again, scooping another two Gold Club Awards at the agency’s Central Region’s annual prize-giving ceremony recently. The central regions of Pam Golding Property Real Estate gathered at Inanda Polo Club in Sandton to celebrate top realtor stars in various fields. Gold Club status is awarded to agents who have achieved and maintained a consistently high level of excellent service and adhered to the strictest principles of ethical conduct. Andrew Golding and Dana Thompson Those awarded have also contributed outstanding efforts to real estate far greater than the accepted norm and shown the utmost pride in their profession, resulting in sales worth millions of rand within a specific time period. This year Pam Golding White River was awarded many places in the star-studded line-up, including the prestigious trophy for highest sales value and highest total sales value. Both these awards went to agent Dana Thompson. Given the large size of the region – it stretches from Hoedspruit down to Mbombela towards Dullstroom and includes Middelburg as well as some Johannesburg offices – the awards are no mean feat.  Thompson, going from strength to strength, was also awarded Pam Golding’s national second runner-up award in her section and category at the recent annual conference held at Fancourt in George. The White River branch has been doing exceedingly well year after year. Principal Diana Dessington called the latest a sterling performance. “We believe our success is made possible by extraordinary people through a dedicated training academy and innovative CRM platform and leading referral network,” she said.  Yet the year has not been without its sad moments. The company’s life chairman and founder Pam Golding, an icon of the real estate industry in South Africa and globally as well as a role model and inspiration for women everywhere passed away in April. Close to home, Candy Gehle, who was an agent at Pam Golding White River as well as a 13-year elite Gold Club member, passed away this year too. Dessington said the office mourned their loss. Di Dessington