 Statistics show that one in two teenagers actively consumes alcohol. Ingrid Louw, CEO at aware.org (association for alcohol responsibility and education), said alcohol has the potential to rob the youth of a bright future. A finding also shows that 49 per cent of the learners interviewed had consumed alcohol at some stage during their high school career.  These are findings by HDI-Youth Marketeers. According to Marina Erasmus from SANCA Lowveld, teenagers who start drinking at a young age are more likely to develop alcohol dependence at a later stage in their lives. “Kids are starting to drink at a very young age and for most of them it is just for fun. Parents need to make friends with their children so that they may be able to talk to them about issues such a underage drinking,” she explained. Louw said there are various potential reasons for teens to turn to alcohol. “Many talented South Africans are confronted with harsh realities such as poor guidance, poverty, high unemployment rates of their parents and guardians. The additional stress is self-confidence challenges, peer pressure and anxiety. “Alcohol is often seen as an escape mechanism for teenagers.  The fallout of underage drinking can be devastating. It can result in adverse effects including accidents, alcohol poisoning, injuries, physical and mental changes, an increase in risky behaviour and vulnerability,” she explained. According to the South African Medical Journal, alcoholism among youths is of particular concern, given that at least half of the country’s population is categorised as young people, under the age of 35. South Africa is a hard drinking nation. It is reckoned that we consume an excess of five billion litres of alcohol annually. This figure is likely to be higher if sorghum beer is included, and equates to nine to 10 litres of pure alcohol per person. Surveys have shown that alcohol use among our youth is common and increases with age for both males and females. There is also a tendency to more harmful binge drinking. Alcohol is easily purchased from bottle stores, supermarkets, bars and shebeens and other unlicensed liquor outlets, which outnumber licensed ones, particularly in disadvantaged communities. The minister of health has suggested a ban on alcohol advertising and sponsorship. He also wishes to raise the age of legal alcohol consumption from the present 18 to 21. The minister’s stance is based on the reduction in smoking that followed the ban on tobacco advertising, one of the principal aims of the Tobacco Products Control Amendment Act of October 2000 having been to reduce the pressure on young people to begin a lifelong (tobacco) addiction at age 15 and younger. Aware.org, with the Mpumalanga Economic Regulator (MER) has, as a result, launched a pilot project to tackle underage drinking. This is the rationale behind a programme called It Starts Today. The first phase started in the Bushbuckridge area. Bushbuckridge Secondary School, Ngwaritsane Secondary School, Mavilian Primary and SH Nyalungu Primary have started with the programme. “We have developed a multipronged programme in collaboration with strategic partners including the MER, HDI, YDX, TeenActiv, Project Isizwe and the HSRC,” said Louw. As part of the school interventions, various elements will be introduced. Life orientation classes at schools will be used to educate the pupils, as will Future Runner (a mobile app game developed for children aged between 10 and 16), Project Isizwe which will enhance the portal accessibility by providing Internet hotspots across townships, as well as monitoring and evaluation.