 This year, for the first time, Woza Albert is coming to the Innibos National Arts Festival. Award-winning actor and director Mncedisi Shabangu, who hails from KaNyamanzane, is the director and producer and also performs in the acclaimed satirical political drama. He co-stars with Nhlanhla Nhlabathi, another actor from KaNyamazane.  It was created in 1979 by authors and actors Percy Mtwa and Mbongeni Ngema in collaboration with Barney Simon, artistic director at the Market Theatre. It opened in 1981 and has since won more than 20 awards worldwide. In 1986 it was revived by the Market Theatre with Sello Maake KaNcube and Louis Seboko and again in 2001 another one. In 2012, Shabangu and award-winning actor Hamilton Dhlamini revived it and performed for a sold out season of seven months at the Market Theatre. They had to cut the season because they had to tour to Edinburgh, Scotland. Shabangu is also the director of the KaNyamazane Theatre Organisation. During an interview with Lowvelder he shared his journey and achievements. He studied at the Market Theatre Laboratory in Johannesburg and The Royal National Theatre in London. He believes that education is the key to success. “Talent without education is sometimes not good enough. The youth need to go to school so that the acting industry can get the respect it deserves, just like doctors go to school for their qualifications. Just because you see a person who has made it and you want to be just like them it doesn’t mean you must not go to university,” he explained. Shabangu started his career 25 years ago. Among his achievements is winning the Standard Bank Young Artist Award. He was also awarded with a Fleur de Cap and KKNK Gong for his role in the drama Tsepang. He is also known for his appearances on the television series The Lab and SABC2 sitcom Home Sweet Home. He has worked with internationally acclaimed directors such as Lara Foot, John Kani, William Kentridge, James Ngcobo, Aubrey Sekhabi, John Matshikiza, Mwenya Kabwe, Monageng Motshabi, Paul Grootboom, Prince Lamla and Jaco Bouwer. He added that, as scary as the industry is, he would allow his children to choose acting as a career. “I sometimes see some characteristics of an actor in them and I get tempted to take them to theatre. If one of my kids approach me, saying they are ready and want to act, I will support them. I will also urge them to go to school first, so that they will be educated.” He believes in sharing his knowledge with others and plans to empower young aspiring performers.  Woza Albert tells the story of the second coming of Morena, the saviour, in song, dance and mime. Multiple characters, acted out by two actors, uses this metaphor of Jesus to show what would happen if he came back to South Africa during apartheid. It doesn’t tell an apartheid story, but embraces current and prevailing issues such as unemployment and the displacement of people, the legacy of dead leaders and the lack of leadership. • Be sure not to miss this powerful stage production on Friday June 29 at 14:00 at Lowveld High. Tickets cost R82 and can be booked at Computicket.