 A lack of theatre time and patient burden at Rob Ferreira Hospital have scarred a local young rugby player, Andries Brink (20), for life. His month-long ordeal started when he fractured his forearm on May 5 during a rugby match. He was transferred to his hometown hospital on May 6. Brink needed surgery, but this never happened. His family eventually borrowed money to have the operation done in a private hospital. During the surgery, his arm was shortened by one centimetre. According to Brink’s mother, Lizl, the surgeon explained that had the procedure been performed on time he would not have had to cut the bone. He waited to be helped by Rob Ferreira for more than three weeks. “The very first day things looked promising. They did blood tests and I got painkillers. I was told to return on Wednesday. “On my return things started looking bad, because after waiting for assistance they told me that my name is not on the theatre list and I had to wait for a bed to become available. I was also told that they could not help me because that they do not assist male patients on Wednesday,” said Brink. “The reason for not operating on me changed from day to day. They would say they did not have a bed for me, they do not have my name on the list for patients booked for theatre, the doctor is not available, I am not an emergency patient or they would promise to perform the procedure the following day,” he explained. He could not bath himself properly or dress without assistance. Once again he returned to the hospital as requested after a couple of days, but the operation still did not take place. ALSO READ:Strike ends with court interdict at Rob Ferreira Hospital More than three weeks passed since the day of the injury. On May 28 his family decided to seek help elsewhere. “Watching my son in pain and knowing I can’t help him was very difficult,” Lizl said.
They family recounted that the hospital was dirty and some of the staff members rude. “We now have to raise funds so that we can pay back the money we borrowed for his procedure. We do not know who will help us.” The Department of Health confirmed that Brink was admitted at Rob Ferreira Hospital on May 6 with a broken left hand and was booked for an operation which was scheduled to take place on May 28. “The mother then requested that her son be released from hospital to go and wait at home for the operation date. However, on the day of the operation, she did not show up at the hospital with her son for the operation to be conducted.   The hospital then phoned the parent, who then indicated that she will no longer be bringing her son back to the hospital because they will now utilise the services of a private hospital,” said spokesman Dumisani Malamule. ALSO READ:Rob Ferreira Hospital’s dirty laundry trip Yet in a letter confirming to the hospital that the family would be seeking alternative treatment, dated May 22, the doctor cited that “due to a lack of theatre time and patient burden (the patient) has been unable to be assisted up to now”.
Brink is hardly alone in not receiving care. Another woman, who spoke to Lowvelder on condition of anonymity for fear of victimisation, recounted how her elderly mother was recently made to suffer due to a lack of assistance at the hospital. “We didn’t know what was wrong with her. She just got sick. She was weak and she could not talk nor do anything. She lost control of her body. Her file was kept on the emergency side but the nurses kept moving it to the bottom of the pile. They kept assisting people who were clearly not emergencies. My mother was in a wheelchair and dehydrated. She soiled herself. We cleaned her up. Eventually we left at three in the morning after not being assisted. My daughter, who works at a private hospital, had to give her a drip.   “The next day we returned to Rob Ferreira. It was the same story. The staff were rude and unhelpful.”
They eventually gave up and drove to Barberton Hospital where she was assisted promptly and efficiently.
“That hospital is amazing and the staff there is great,” the woman said. “They helped my mother in no time. It was like it is a different world.” Lowvelder recently reported about the poor conditions in other state hospitals, with some staff members striking over their poor working conditions. In his speech tabling the Department of Health’s budget for the 2018/19 year earlier this week, MEC Gillion Mashego admitted that the department’s hospitals faced shortages of staff, medication and medical equipment and that staff had a bad attitude. “These are issues that we know about and they have been tabled in our policy and budget speech, hence they are a priority,” he said. Malamule said patients are attended to immediately when they report to a hospital. “In some cases, patients may be allocated a waiting period which depends on the amount of emergency cases the hospital has. Patients are triaged on arrival to emergency unit. Doctors are the ones who determine the seriousness of cases or an emergency once the patient has been triaged,” he stated.