 MBOMBELA – There was no shortage of glitz and glam at the grand opening of Mbombela’s first VIP Barber Lounge on Friday.
Prominent businessmen, dressed to the nines, were invited to the red-carpet-themed event on the corner of Anderson and Spruit streets.
The aim of the lounge is to attract upper-class individuals for an experience that will not be forgotten.
According to operations manager, Shequila Adams, you will leave feeling like a king. “You will completely forget that you’re in Mbombela upon entering,” she said. Vuyolwethu Nhlengethwa, the owner, said that the mission was to enhance classiness, beauty and confidence in his clients by using innovative practices and superior products through highly skilled and passionate professionals.
“Through teamwork and continued education, we ensure that our most-valued assets, our customers, remain first priority,” he said.
Vuyolwethu, a son, husband, father, brother and special friend to many, grew up in the dusty streets of a township in Barberton, where at an early stage of his life he sold fruits and vegetables. He was able to tap into every tool as his entrepreneurial career advanced, thanks to the guidance of his mother, Patricia Mamba.
He is loved for his respect and humanity, which he acknowledges his mother instilled in him from an early stage of his life.
VIP Barber Lounge came into being due to the overwhelming majority of family, friends, business associates and the public who kept on complimenting Vuyolwethu for his dapper taste and classic hairdressing styles. More and more people started asking him to dress them up and if they could use his barber. This is how he eventually built his client base.
He then visualised the concept of starting a first-of-its-kind grooming salon for both men and women, which is a one-stop barber which utilises top professionals in the industry.
He gave thanks to his wife Cecilia (Da Silva) Nhlengethwa for supporting his vision and being the pillar in every aspect of his life.
He also acknowledged Senzo Tsabedze, a brother and friend who has mentored him over the years to be the person he is today. “Lastly I am grateful for the overwhelming support I have received ever since the business was launched, and that spans from the community at large to captains of industry who have lauded me for starting a long-awaited grooming experience in Mbombela,” he said.