 The KTM RC 390 serves a number of purposes in the European market. Firstly, it serves as an intermediate class of bike for the European licence requirements and secondly as a contender in the World Superbike 300 series. Thirdly it serves to put a smile on the face of even the most sedate motorcyclist. The front-end design of the RC reminds me of Darth Vader with a little Terminator mixed in. This bike is clearly aimed at the younger market, but the young at heart will have just as much fun on this pocket sport bike. The RC now has a ride-by-wire throttle and a delightfully light slipper-clutch. This adds up to a bike that you want to ride hard all of the time. The seating position is such that you are leaning forward onto the handlebars, and with your feet swept back, the plucky Austrian leaves you no choice than to feel as if you want to attack a corner. With the suspension honed by WP, you want to hunt every apex. Read more:  Women’s Choice Awards 2017: Land Rover Discovery Sport KTM RC 390 There is a single disc up front and the calliper is radial mounted on the upside down front forks. Brakes are ABS assisted, as is the norm nowadays. The KTM is manufactured by Bajaj in India and shatters all preconceived ideas about built quality. Even the attention to small details stands out for me. The indicators are neatly incorporated into the mirror stalks, and the hand-controls are backlit so that you can distinguish them at night. The 373cc engine delivers 32kW (43hp) and sounds a bit tinny at idle speeds, but once the revs start to climb it does have a nice growl to it. KTM RC 390 Also read: Norway by bike Once on the move, the RC is a delight to ride. It even has enough grunt to make the front wheel lift and will definitely keep up with traffic. Two small items in the minus column are the smallish 10 litre tank and the instrumentation that looks dated against the current crop of TFT screens. That being said, the instrumentation cluster displays a surprising amount of information. KTM RC 390 If you have outgrown your 125, but a Superbike is just a bridge too far, the RC390 would make the ideal next step. It is nimble enough to be used as a commuter and would probably make an excellent track-tool as well. Also read: Suzuki Ignis has everything and more KTM is also running a special till the end of June, which gives you a substantial amount towards your deposit. So pop into your local KTM dealer. You will not be disappointed.