 MBOMBELA – In a landmark judgement delivered by the Bloemfontein Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) on May 31, a full bench of judges ruled that the AFU may launch a High Court preservation of property application without notifying parties with an interest in the property, such the owners thereof, of the application. If the AFU has reasonable grounds to believe that property, such as stolen or defrauded money, is the proceeds of crime or was used to commit crime, such as a vehicle used to smuggle drugs, the AFU may seize and later forfeit such property. This came after the Civil Circuit High Court in Mbombela , on November 10, 2016, struck an ex parte preservation of property application of the AFU from the roll. With an ex parte application only the party launching the application is before court. The Mbombela High Court ordered the AFU to first serve the seizure application upon persons with an interest in the property. The SCA has now ruled that the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (POCA) allows the AFU to apply ex parte for an initial seizure of property order. ALSO READ: Concourt rules against mining in nature reserves The POCA requires that such a seizure order be obtained before the AFU may proceed to apply for the forfeiture of the property in a subsequent application. A judge must decide upon the merits of the initial ex parte seizure application in accordance with Section 38 (2) of the POCA, before granting the seizure order to the AFU. The purpose of obtaining an initial seizure order over the tainted property without notifying parties with an interest therein, is to secure it and protect it from being disposed of or removed and to ensure that it be ultimately forfeited to the state or victim. In its judgement, the SCA dealt with several other important issues. It confirmed that all such ex parte applications must be brought by the AFU in camera (not in open court). It also ruled that seizure order applications are by their nature urgent and must be heard as soon as possible. All applications brought by the AFU in terms of the POCA are civil, not criminal, applications. The AFU therefore has a lighter burden of proof in these cases. In a seizure application they only need to prove that reasonable grounds exists. In forfeiture applications they need only show that, on a balance of probabilities, the property is the proceeds of crime or was used to commit crime. ALSO SEE: Cambodia set for landmark verdict on Khmer Rouge chiefs The POCA also allows the AFU to apply for a confiscation order against a convicted person for an amount equal to what he or she has benefited from the crime that he or she had committed. For example, if a person is convicted for stealing R1 million from his employer, the AFU may obtain a confiscation order for an amount equal to that amount. The AFU may then later obtain an order to seize any property of the accused to the value of the confiscation order, namely R1 million. If the state was the victim of a crime, the proceeds from the confiscated assets must be deposited into the Criminal Asset Recovery Account (CARA). The POCA provides that all money in the CARA account must exclusively be used to promote the operations of law enforcement institutions to fight crime. POCA also provides that when a crime was committed against a private individual or institution, the proceeds from the confiscated assets may be used to recuperate their losses.