 LYDENBURG – Electricity purchases have been heavily influenced and this has resulted in limited electricity units being issued.
All accounts now reflect being in arrears, because TCLM’s server is down and offices are closed. Last Tuesday members of the South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) downed tools, demanding the resignation of the municipal manager, Thoka Kgoale. Kgoale had to be escorted from his office by police after Samwu members arrived at his office, demanding his dismissal.
Last Thursday chaos erupted at TCLM when community members turned on each other.
One group, which supported Kgoale, and another which opposed him clashed. Local police, as well as POPS from Hazyview, had to intervene. The two groups were dispersed by police firing rubber bullets.
Capt Kaizer Moela, Lydenburg SAPS communications officer, said on scene that officers are on high alert following the clash. He confirmed that several members of the two groups were injured when the scuffle broke loose.
Despite the unrest, a council meeting proceeded in the chambers of TCLM. Steelburger/Lydenburg News attended the meeting, where councillors voted in favour of issuing a letter of dismissal to Kgoale.
He has seven days to respond to the letter. During the meeting, ANC councillors also requested the dismissal of the executive mayor, Selina Mashego. Their request was denied by Speaker Tiny Mabuza. Her decision to refuse the request was supported by several councillors. On Tuesday this week, a reliable source in TCLM told Steelburger/Lydenburg News that the electricity in the municipal offices had been sabotaged. The entire building was without power for the rest of the day. He said the biggest challenge is the payment of municipal accounts. “Even if residents pay their account via electronic fund transfers (EFT), it will not be captured as the server is also down. Residents purchasing electricity thus only receive limited electricity units, as it still reflects as their accounts were in arrears.”  The source said that union workers were adamant they would not return to the office until Kgoale has been dismissed.
It is not certain if and when the offices will reopen. Mr George P Mthethwa, director of communications and ITS, Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) of Mpumalanga responded to follow-up questions put to him. Question: Why is the province turning a blind eye to this horrendously run municipality?
Response: The department has made several interventions in support of the Thaba Chweu Local Municipality. The appointment of the municipal manager, Mr Kgoale, is amongst the interventions to strengthen the administrative capability. This was followed by filling of section 56 managers. Question: Why is there no intervention?
Response: The department has taken a decision to deploy a chief financial officer to provide financial management support after the suspension of the incumbent. This forms part of the interventions that are provided to the municipality.
Thaba Chweu is among four municipalities in Mpumalanga identified by national Cogta in which a team of financial experts and project managers will be deployed to restore financial, governance and service delivery sustainability. Through the Integrated Municipal Support Plan (IMSP) we have assisted the Thaba Chweu in dealing with the unfavourable audit outcomes.
This was done with the assistance of Cogta, Provincial Treasury and Salga. The results were not favourable. However we will continue to pay attention in this regard until an improvement is realised. Question: The Eskom account has once again increased. Why is the province not intervening in this matter?
Response: The Eskom matter is a challenge faced by most municipalities countrywide. Part of the intervention by the national department of Cogta seeks to resolve the Eskom account and we hope a solution will be on the cards. The team from national Cogta will be working with the chief financial officer in addressing the Eskom account. Failure by communities, especially those who can afford it, and public sector institutions to pay municipal accounts has an adverse impact on cash flow. The fact is that outstanding debts from consumers are increasing further threatens the financial viability in our municipalities. We will further work with Salga and district municipalities in supporting municipalities to limit contestation around the billing by providing guidance of mapping between valuation rolls and billing systems; as well as charting the correct tariff structure and category of users to the billing systems.