 “Each racing class sported a dozen or more competitors in every class and heat, making for crowded circuits and spectacularly tight racing,” says Howard. “Today computers, the Internet and smartphones rule the roost.” One can add, I think, that the controlling bodies with their yellow-pages-thick rule books and the rest may well also be choking the sport. Howard is a heavyweight – seriously. He was the SA Production Motorcycle champion (1000cc class) 1975, 76, 77 – the Transvaal Champion 1977 and the Natal Champion 1978 and recently, he also rode a replica, of the original which he rode in 1978, F1 Kawa built by Rob Godwin. And, said Howard as per a quote from On the Track magazine “the bike responded uncannily like my ’78 racer.” “the bike responded uncannily like my ’78 racer.” Rob’s engine, now sporting 1105cc Yoshimura pistons with a 11,5 to 1 compression ratio, standard valves and fairly mild cams, felt just a strong as my 940cc unit which probably ran wilder cams and cam timing with similar compression.” Howard understands the technicalities, requirements and demands associated with the sport and this is why he also still writes for various publications. And, not just about bikes either. But let’s start at the beginning. A neighbour who raced Formula One, Jackie Pretorius, introduced him to motor racing in 1962. Howard started racing karts at age 15. Despite showing promise, sponsorships were hard to come by or nonexistent. But first of course, there was military training – air force as an Ops Intel Officer eventually working with the Royal Navy. On completion of the above, friends suggested that he race motorbikes – this was in 1971. And he almost immediately got a sponsorship from Club Motors in Pretoria racing a 500cc Kawasaki. They were the importers of Kawasaki at the time. “Racing, as with most things at that time, was done by the seat of your pants,” says Howard.  “I was racing at national level and getting to races and bike maintenance was expensive so, yes sponsorships were the biggest challenge and key to my racing. Club Motors also offered me a ride on a BMW R75/5 at Roy Hesketh in Natal where I finished in 7th place.” Howard also, with the help of Mike Winfield, raced in a friendly Club race at Brands Hatch and finished second. Those were the days of Page 3 girls being part and parcel of the podium. “In 1975 I joined BMW full-time. It was a tough choice, as I could also at the time go and race overseas and live from the back of a Transit Van but the BMW offer won the day. I think I made the wrong decision though, but at the time,” he reminisced, “the full sponsorship meant a lot.”  “We won our first race for BMW at Gold Fields in 1975. McCarthy also then became the importers of both BMW and Kawasaki – the days of the large and heavy four-cylinder bikes had dawned. A race for stock standard bikes was held as a support race to the Wynns 1000 at Kyalami in 1975. Future world champion, Jon Ekerold and I were teamed on Kawasaki Z1 machines, and by golly, I won the race. We became good friends and he did the right thing – went overseas as a privateer and well, the rest is history.” He went on to race for Kawasaki with various sponsors. Also read:Small track tests enduro riders’ skills Howard also in time was invited to a one-off race on a BMW prepared by Ron Herring, former race technician for Phil Read, in a 100-lapper at Hesketh. A mechanical problem however forced them to start right at the back of the grid, “but I came through to third.” His racing prowess became legendary.  He also once beat the seven-time champion Johan Boshoff.
What goes through your mind when you find yourself amidst a crash? “Well, you will ’til the last moment try and minimize the impact. Catch fences in those days were lethal for bikers.” But yes, he continued his winning streak and, being the PR for Kawasaki, did the stunt riding for the movie called The Fifth Season/Die Vyfde Seisoen. Also read: Activities abound at the Nelspruit Motor Show He then started racing in the Formula One Class (1000cc) for modified bikes. “We won some races, but in 1978 Kawasaki decided they had enough. So I went on to race in Zimbabwe racing a Honda – I did a lot of things though – also signed up with Laverda. “Their bikes were pretty old; it was under-funded so it did not last. Bikes would run 10 laps and then blow up. Dealing with the Italians is worse than pulling teeth – it was always my fault.” He retired from racing in 1982 – after the last Hesketh race where he finished fifth and started a communications, marketing and PR company also writing for various publications. He sold the company in 2005, but eventually he started writing for Truck & Bus Magazine. Today he’s a columnist and sometimes feature writer for the publication. Also read: Jaguar I-Pace is exhilaratingly electric Howard Mellet’s interview continued, but space will not allow for more banter. He is now retired in Mbombela, still rides, writes and would love to join up with the like-minded in the Lowveld but be aware, a gonsgroepie with Howard will prove delightful, informative and probably even a tad addictive.