 STRYDOMBLOK – Expressions of shock and messages of condolences and support abounded this weekend following the news that Deon de Bruyn (25) had been fatally shot during a farm attack. De Bruyn managed the Simonsvlei farm for his employer Estelle Jansen (59). He was killed and Jansen seriously wounded during the attack at around 09:00 on Sunday. According to provincial police spokesman, Col Mtsholi Bhembe, three men wearing balaclavas gained entry to the farm. They overpowered a security guard and tied him up before heading to the house. They ambushed De Bruyn outside and forced him into the house, where they found Jansen. After dragging her out of bed and tying her and De Bruyn up, the robbers reportedly indiscriminately fired shots. One hit De Bruyn in the heart and killed him, while several hit Jansen. Her son, Elmer Jansen (25) was in the house and managed to scare off the intruders. Estelle and Elmer Jansen. The robbers took a cellphone and fled on foot. The police and other security structures were notified. Paramedics also responded, certifying De Bruyn dead on the scene and rushing Jansen to Mediclinic Nelspruit. READ: Jongman kom op vriend se lewelose liggaam af, kry ma in plas bloed Susan de Bruyn, Deon’s mother, told Lowvelder that Jansen had been stabilised and that her recovery would take some time. “She was like a second mother to Deon. He farmed and did general tasks for her. I don’t view this as a farm attack. It was cold-blooded murder. He was shot with his hands tied behind his back,” De Bruyn said. READ: Elderly couple fall victim to second farm attack in less than a month After the attack the local farm watch and security companies worked with the police to cordon the area off and search for the suspects throughout Sunday. No arrests have been made yet. Cases of murder and attempted murder have been opened at Komatipoort SAPS. Police urged anyone who can help them track down the suspects to contact the investigating officer, Capt Louis Stander on  082-449-0242 or the SAPS Crime Stop line on 08600-10111.