 MBOMBELA – Rand Water employees’ actions left more than half a million people without water in Nsikazi South and North areas. As of going to press, the situation was only just normalising. Rand Water staff shut down the KaNyamazane water treatment plant on Thursday and sabotaged pipes, valves, pumps and other infrastructure. On Friday officials were prevented by some employees from gaining access to the plant. They obtained a court interdict against the Rand Water employees and managed to get the plant running again, only to find other infrastructure on the supply line had been sabotaged. The water provision system ran dry by Saturday, while officials worked frantically to restore the water to Nsikazi South and North. CMLM provided water tankers to the affected communities. As of going to press, the situation was finally normalising. Municipal spokesman, Joseph Ngala said the area affected spread from KaNyamazane right through to KaBokweni and the surrounding areas. READ MORE HERE: UPDATE: Three clinics affected by water plant sabotage “We are not sleeping until the situation is normalised. At the moment we are nearly there. We are sitting at a 30 per cent water level at even the furthest reservoir along the pipeline, which means everyone is getting a little bit of water already.” He said about 500 000 people had been affected by the water interruptions. Rand Water’s water provision contract with the municipality was supposed to end on July 1. However due to the strike action, the CMLM obtained an interdict against the workers on Friday, granting them permission to take over operations until Rand Water returned to work or the end of the month, and prohibiting the employees from interfering with the water supply. The Rand Water employees told Lowvelder on Friday that they were unsure about their future and whether they were going to receive packages from the government-run organisation. “Nobody has spoken to us. We even sent letters to the minister of Department of Water and Sanitation and nobody has spoken to us.” Rand Water spokesman, Justice Hohale said they were aware that on Thursday, 90 of its employees embarked on industrial action at the water plant.  “The employees alleged that they were not adequately consulted on their pending transfer to the municipality, scheduled to be effective from July 1. Rand Water disputes this, and is of the opinion that it has, and will continue to engage with those employees on their transfer.” He said on Friday the municipality obtained an interdict preventing the Rand Water employees from entering any of its premises. “Rand Water has subsequently directed those employees to report for duty this morning at its Farm House premises in the area. This is a temporary arrangement.” He said Rand Water would “continue to constructively engage with the municipality, as well as the employees, with a view to reach a positive resolution on the matter.”  Ngala said they had tried but were unable to communicate with Rand Water about the employees since council took the decision to terminate the contract. He said the water provision contract with Rand Water was only to be terminated on June 30. “This was to allow us a smooth transition period to take over the water supply without any hiccups. But then we got a notice to say they had downed their tools at the end of May. “What puzzled us was that as they downed tools, they sabotaged our equipment. This belongs to the city.” Ngala added that the strikers had a right to air their grievances with their employers, but it was irresponsible to damage the infrastructure that supplied water to the community. Members of the public lined up on Saturday morning to fetch water at the treatment works in KaNyamazane. A resident queueing for water outside the treatment plant said they were outraged, as they had no water at their home.  “I could not even wash myself or cook this morning. We cannot live like this. We are stuck in the middle of this fight and we are the ones who are now suffering.” Department of Health spokesman, Dumisani Malamule said there were no hospitals affected, though but clinics in Tekwane, KaNyamazane and Pienaar had to rely on water tankers to supply them over the weekend. Ngala said some of the workers had trashed the area with chemicals and sabotaged infrastructure such as pumps, switches and valves along the pipeline. “We are taking criminal actions against those who sabotaged the plant. This is malicious damage to property.” Police spokesman Col Mtsholi Bhembe confirmed that a police case had been opened for malicious damage to property and trespassing. As of going to press, no arrests had been made.