 By developing an understanding of the NQF, you can make assumptions about registration and accreditation, which makes it all much easier to understand because a qualification that is not registered or accredited is not on the NQF, so it really is your shortcut to working out what is real and what is not. “South Africa has a register of all qualifications which is managed by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), and this register is referred to as the NQF,” she explains.   “We are fortunate in South Africa to have some really strict rules that educational institutions and training providers have to adhere to, so if you want to study there are a few simple questions to ask to which there are very clear answers. If an institution is not clear with you on the answers, the chances are you should be cautious about registering.” 1)     It has a credit value of 120 as a minimum, and 2)     is registered on the NQF with an NQF ID (sometimes called a SAQA ID) number. “The shortest possible qualification is therefore normally one year as it takes about a year of study to do 120 credits.  A degree is normally at least 360 credits and so on. Without these two being in place, what you are studying is considered a short course and not a qualification, so it cannot be called a diploma or degree. Also read: SA is one of the top 10 countries worldwide where people feel unsafe So, if a South African institution is offering you a diploma for three weeks of study, it is not legitimate and warning lights should start flashing about that institution.” If an education institution cannot provide a prospective student with a programme’s NQF ID, caution should be exercised as it is then not a South African qualification.   However, even when an institution does provide an NQF ID, one should still verify it independently. Check its level and credit value, as well as information about what it covers. You can then compare that information to the marketing material given to you by the training provider to make sure that the promises and reality match.”  Also read: South Africa must keep calm and carry on Original content: Meropa Communications