 KOMATIPOORT – The local Magistrate’s Court was packed on Thursday, when five suspects appeared for the murder of Deon de Bruyn and the attempt on Estelle Jansen’s life.
Rawun Mhlanga (28), Derrick Makamo (24), Sifiso Madonsela (33), Oscar Chauke (36) and Solomon Msimango (33) were arrested in various locations in the Tonga area the previous day.
They are accused of fatally shooting the 25-year-old manager in his home on Simonsvlei Farm in Strydomblok on
June 17. Deon’s employer, Jansen (59), survived being shot several times and has, in the meantime, been discharged from Mediclinic Nelspruit. Condolences and message of support pour in for farm attack victims After the incident police and local security structures teamed up to track down and arrest five suspects. Komatipoort Community Safety’s management, supported by local farmers, promised a R50 000 reward for any information that could lead to the suspects’ arrest. They were successful within three days of the attack.
Family and friends paid tribute to Deon at a memorial service held in Komatipoort on Friday morning.
His mother, Susan de Bruyn, said the family is very thankful for the good work the local police, detectives, security services and community members did. “They told us that they only received positive leads,” she said.
The family was grateful for all the support they received and the presence of so many farmers in the court, despite the short notice.
“We’re going to be at every court, appearance. We want to keep up the pressure. Things like this, especially in small towns, tend to easily become a memory. We hope this can give the rest of the country more hope to keep going and to not stay quiet,” Jansen said.
Jansen has been recovering at a family member’s home. She planned to move back home today. She said the news of the arrest was fantastic. “I was despondent but now I have hope again. I can face the world again, knowing they are behind bars. Jongman kom op vriend se lewelose liggaam af – kry ma in plas bloed “I was too scared to move back home knowing that the suspects were still out there, but my hope was renewed to such an extent that I am ready to return,” she said. “I returned home twice but was too scared to stay there. It was hard that Deon was not there.
“I get nightmares and panic attacks. I get flashbacks of the attack. My family supported me a lot, but being alone in hospital at night was bad.
“It is going to be very difficult staying in my home without Deon there. I was so used to having lunch with him. Luckily my son Elmer and other family are supporting me,” Jansen said.
The five suspects appeared in the Komatipoort Periodical Court on Thursday on charges of murder and attempted murder, as well as four other charges relating to the incident. The suspects were remanded in custody and will appear in the same court on Friday to start the formal bail application process. Also read: Body found after two-week search