 Well-known local musician from Havanna, Ilse Muller, and local sound engineer, Dewald Scheepers were both seriously injured in a collision on Friday evening. Spokesman for the Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison, Moeti Mmusi confirmed the accident took place on the R37. Ilse Muller and Wynand Mare of Havanna at a performance at Innibos. It is alleged that a Dutch tourist in a Nissan X-Trail, veered into the oncoming lane, colliding head-on with the Isuzu bakkie in which Muller and Scheepers were traveling. The tourist was rushed to Mediclinic Nelspruit, but succumbed to his injuries. His passenger, a female, is still in ICU. ALSO READ: Uplands pupils involved in fatal accident According to Muller’s husband, Wynand Mare, she and Scheepers were returning from a performance in Sabie. Mare had also performed with Muller and Scheepers that night, but had to go to Middelburg afterwards. The front of the Nissan X-Trail the Dutch tourists were travelling in. When Mare reached Belfast, he received a call from an unknown woman who was first on the scene of the accident. Mare was able to talk to Muller briefly and rushed to the scene. Upon arrival the ambulance he had called earlier had already transported all four injured occupants to Mediclinic Nelspruit. ALSO READ: Accident claims one life, injures five in Mbombela According to ER24 paramedic Kim Habib, the male Dutch tourist died later in hospital. The female tourist is currently still receiving treatment at the intensive care unit. Scheepers, who was travelling with Muller, was transferred to Milpark Hospital in Johannesburg due to head injuries he suffered. His mother, Gertie Scheepers confirmed this morning that, “Dewald still has a lot of pain but is less confused. He was set to undergo an operation to reattach his collarbone today but doctors decided that he is too weak. We are also waiting for the neurologist to see him regarding his head injury.”  Muller is currently still in ICU at Mediclinic Nelspruit. She has suffered a broken nose, injured cheek bone, lung fracture, liver fracture and multiple breaks in her feet and toes. Mare explained that she would have to undergo surgery, but that doctors are waiting for the swelling in her feet to go down. Mare expressed his gratitude for all the assistance and well wishes they have received from the community and friends. “We do not understand why such things happen, but we know there is a plan with this also and Ilse and I praise Jesus,” he said.