 MBOMBELA – One of the six South Africans, among the more than 250 foreigners who fled from Pemba, Macomia and other surrounding areas in Cabo Delgado Province, was Carina Schmidt, a Mbombelan who matriculated from Hoërskool Nelspruit in 2014. The group, consisting of South Africans, Americans, Mexicans, Dutch nationals and Canadians, and citizens form other foreign countries, attended the Harvest School for Missionaries at Pemba, capital of Cabo Delgado Province. ALSO READ: Foreigners evacuated as violence spikes In an interview shortly after she arrived in Mbombela on a flight from Maputo, Schmidt told Lowvelder that the evacuation from Pemba started on Tuesday. The group of more than 250 people arrived in South Africa during the week, when they managed to get seats on flights out of the troubled region.  The missionary school will now be relocated to White River so that the international students can complete their training, but the American head of Harvest School, Heidi Baker and her husband, Rolland, insisted on staying behind to carry on with their missionary work in the province. The risk level in the area was described by a risk analysis group in Mozambique, Focus Africa, on Wednesday as “very high”. Joe van der Walt of Focus Africa told Lowvelder that the situation remains very risky with expected armed incursions, which in turn, would result in an increase in clashes between the armed Jihadists and government soldiers.  The mass evacuation of foreigners comes two months after Lowvelder revealed in April that more than 90 well trained Jihadists, believed to be members of ISIS, had infiltrated into Northern Mozambique via Zanzibar through the Tanzanian border, making their way down to the Port of Nacala. Of the numerous prior infiltrations, this was the largest single group that came into the neighbouring state. According to Van der Walt, who does risk analysis in Mozambique, there has been a sharp increase in violent attacks in the past two weeks. Twenty seven civilians and eight suspected armed militants have been killed in four armed confrontations with the Mozambican forces. About 360 houses were reportedly destroyed by fire. The missionary couple Heidi and Rolland Baker at the Harvest School at Pemba in Mozambique. More than 1 000 people have been displaced and have fled the conflict area. Boats full of refugees sought shelter on the nearby Quirimbas Islands. “A significant number of attack victims were beheaded,” said Van der Walt. He added that the oil and gas plants on the Afungi Peninsula are reported to be in lockdown for fear of workers’ lives. The installations and camps are being protected by Mozambican troops.  The African Union announced last month that ISIS had a presence in the DRC, Somalia, Tanzania and Mozambique.
According to intelligence sources, a recent photograph of armed fighters with a flag that resembled that of ISIS, posted on social media, positively identified the people as Mozambican. “This is cause for concern,” a recent risk report of Focus Africa stated. If ISIS does indeed have a presence among the armed militants in Cabo Delgado then the level of sophistication and the intensity of attacks are likely to increase. The kidnapping of foreign personnel for political motives could also occur.”  The report also refers to information, provided by two Mozambicans who managed to escape from the Islamic fundamentalists to the Mozambican military, that the armed groups are being led and financed by two Tanzanians in Dar-es-Salaam. The American embassy in Maputo and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office last week issued travel warnings to foreigners visiting the districts of Palma, Mocimboa de Praia and Macomia in Cabo Delgado Province. Part 1: Isis fighters infiltrate neighbouring Mozambique
Part 2: Islamic radicals target SA schoolchildren
Part 3: Terror groups in SA – the shocking facts 
 Part 4: Illegals flock to home affairs