 LYDENBURG – Her hind legs were tied together with wire. She was alone in a plantation. She would die a slow, cruel and painful death. Then, on Sunday, some kind humans found her. Phoenix Flying Squad K9 and Mounted Security’s LT Selepe went out of their way to ensure that the dog was rescued from certain death.  According to Jandré Stander of Phoenix, Selepe and his team found the dog during a routine patrol in the plantation. “It is not certain whether the cross-female was caught in a snare or tied up because she was a threat to those stealing wood in the plantation. ALSO READ:What to do when road tripping with your dog They immediately untied the dog and took her to Lydenburg Veterinary Clinic,” said Stander.The wounds on the dog’s legs were infested with maggots and the hind leg bones were visible.  “One of the legs was in a bad shape, and the veterinarian on standby said that there is a possibility that it might be amputated. I asked them to do their best to save the leg.” Stander said that once this dog has healed completely, he will consider using her as either a sniffer or detection dog. “She has a good nature about her and not once did she snap or growl at the officers when they tried to help her. If the dog loses her leg, however, I will ensure that she ends up at one of our officers’ homes as a house dog.” ALSO READ:Photos of severely injured dog sparks outrage on social media Dr Jannie Steyn, of Lydenburg Veterinary Clinic, said that he removed all the maggots from the right leg on Monday. “The bone of the leg is exposed, and hence we cannot close up the leg at the moment. I pricked her paw pads and there is definitely blood flow, which is a good sign. It is going to take some time for the healing to take place, but the outlook is good for saving her leg,” said Steyn. He said that the dog is very good-natured. “She really is a nice dog and she wants to move around. We took her outside, but obviously she can’t put any weight on the leg at the moment. She is a bit underweight, but she eats and drinks well and is not aggressive in any way.” Steyn said the bandages will have to be changed every three days to ensure proper healing. Stander said he will be visiting the dog on Thursday when the bandages will be changed.