 MBOMBELA – According to police spokesman, Lt Col Erhard Stroh, the incident took place at around 04:00 on Friday. He said a grade nine learner was sleeping alone in his room. “The windows, which can open, have burglar bars. The boy had packed a bag as he was leaving for a sports match which was happening outside the city.” The suspect managed to open a window from the outside. “The student woke up and saw the suspect attempting to take his bag. The student grabbed his bag to pull it away from the intruder and a scuffle ensued.”  Stroh added that the man broke the large window pane with his fist. “The glass shattered and the boy’s hand was cut.” The suspect managed to flee the scene with the bag. School media liaison Aliche Bezuidenhout said the boy had an open laceration on his hand and needed stitches. “The pupil was given immediate first aid by a professional at the school. The doctor treated him at about 07:00.” She stated the boy’s parents had come to fetch him after the incident. Stroh added that SAPS suspected the man was the same person involved in a break-in at the girl’s hostel which occurred on May 22. A grade 10 pupil was accosted by an intruder who had gained access through a window on the second storey of the dormitory. He said in that instance, the suspect had grabbed the pupil around her throat and had demanded her phone.Her roomates had woken up and made a commotion, which frightened off the intruder. He fled through the window.   Bezuidenhout said police were in the process of compiling an identikit of the suspect from previous CCTV footage. Despite the security measures the school had in place, they decided to install the latest technology to avoid further incidents after the incident in the girls’ residence. Bezuidenhout said NHS was in the process of finalising the installation. She concluded by saying that the safety of their learners was a top priority for the school. “Acting on advice from the SAPS and local private security companies, various measures are being taken that includes, but are not limited to, additional security guards on the school grounds and additional burglar bars of which some have been installed while the remaining ones are currently being installed,” she said. The boy’s family declined to speak to Lowvelder. READ MORE HERE: Hoërskool Nelspruit’s pupils face nightmare ordeal at school hostel