 MBOMBELA – Well-known local musician from Havanna, Ilse Muller, and local sound engineer, Dewald Scheepers are both doing better after they were in an accident on Friday evening.
The two locals, as well as another woman, were seriously injured in a head-on collision on the R37. A male Dutch tourist died as a result. READ ORGINAL STORY HERE: Local muso in ICU after collision that claimed tourist’s life Muller’s husband, Wynand Mare, said on Monday that Muller had not sustained any critical intestinal injuries. Her nose, collarbone, and a rib were broken, and the greatest injury was to her feet, which would have been operated on yesterday afternoon.Scheepers had been transferred to Milpark Hospital. His mother Gertie, said on Monday that doctors were satisfied with his progress. The bleeding on his brain had improved and he was due to have an operation to his collarbone yesterday afternoon. She said he was also able to talk.It is alleged that a Dutch tourist in a Nissan X-Trail veered into the oncoming lane and collided head-on with the Isuzu bakkie in which Muller and Scheepers were travelling.The tourist was rushed to Mediclinic Nelspruit, but succumbed to his injuries. His passenger, a woman, is still in ICU.    Mare explained that Muller and Scheepers were returning from a performance in Sabie. Mare had also performed with Muller and Scheepers that night, but had to go to Middelburg afterwards.
When Mare reached Belfast, he received a call from an unknown woman who was first at the scene of the accident. Mare was able to talk to Muller briefly and then rushed to the scene. Upon arrival the ambulance he had called earlier had already transported all four injured occupants to Mediclinic Nelspruit.According to ER24 paramedic Kim Habib, the male Dutch tourist died later in hospital. The female tourist is currently still receiving treatment in ICU. Mare expressed their gratitude for all the assistance and well wishes they have received from the community and friends. “We do not understand why such things happen, but we know there is a plan with this also and Ilse and I praise Jesus,” he said.He added that they appreciated everyone’s support. “We are astonished over the reaction and offers of assistance from all over Mbombela, the country and even abroad.” 