 With the world’s biggest installation of synthetic resin, Mercedes-Benz put the world premiere of the new G-Class on January 14 in the spotlight at the North American International Auto Show (NAIAS) in Detroit. The gigantic amber-coloured cube, made of 44,4 tons of synthetic resin, adorns the entrance to Cobo Hall, the NAIAS exhibition hall. Encased in it is a G-Class from the first production year, 1979. Like their genetic material, the DNA of the first G-Class has also been preserved and handed down from generation to generation. These genes are also in the new G-Class, carrying through the characteristic properties of the longest-lived model series from Mercedes-Benz into modern times: an iconic design, indestructible superiority off the beaten track and exceptional ride comfort on the road. Mercedes-Benz G-Class “The amber cube puts the uniqueness of the G-Class in a nutshell,” says Dr Gunnar Güthenke, head of the off-road vehicle product unit at Mercedes-Benz. “Our cult off-road vehicle has been continuously evolving for nearly 40 years – without losing its character or its core values. Its DNA is stronger than time and than any fashion trend. The cube expresses this to stunning effect and thus embodies the objective for advancing the G-Class.” The 280 GE from 1979 is enclosed in the square block in a dynamic position. It gives the impression that it has been engulfed by synthetic resin midstream when driving off-road in its natural habitat and captured – as insects were by amber millions of years ago. Mercedes-Benz G-Class The square block is 5,50 metres long, 2,55 metres wide and 3,10 metres high. It took 90 days to make from 44,4 tons of synthetic resin. Every day the block grew by around three centimetres in height.
The DNA of the G-Class also includes the many stories full of superlatives and milestones people have experienced with the off-road legend. Mercedes-Benz G-Class These stories are being told in the web special, “Stronger Than Time” which began back in November 2017 and is embedded in the https://www.mercedes-benz.com/strongerthantime portal. The “DNA of the G-Class” feature provides interesting facts from 40 years of the G-Class and invites users to share their own G-Class stories using the hashtag #strongerthantime on social networks.