Our company has been in operation for more than thirteen years and have a clean safety record. We opt for smaller balloons to keep the experience private and memorable; every day we guarantee a flight never to be repeated. We typically fly in the Graskop area where we have beautiful forests, plantations and waterfalls.  All flights are done at dawn. We therefore need to meet approximately 30 minutes before sunrise. The balloon is readied whilst you have a cup of tea or coffee. The take off area is determined by the wind of the day. No two flights are ever the same. Passengers are invited to share the whole experience by assisting with the unpacking, inflating and again packing the balloon on landing. A lot of fun and giggles are usually had by all. A typical excursion last three to four hours.  Once the balloon is ready everybody boards and we lift off, destination unknown. The closest we will ever get to the proverbial “magic carpet ride” Conditions allowing, we have some sparkling wine and or orange juice in the balloon whilst the sun rises. Our retrieve vehicle will follow.  Upon landing the balloon is packed up. We then proceed to a hearty “Champagne Breakfast” we talk some more, hand out certificates for bravery (wink, wink) and wave goodbye. Total excursion last between three to four hours.  Cost is R 2800 per person up to three and for four to six passengers we charge R 2 400 per person. The “no flight, no charge” rule applies but in the event of a “no show” by one or all passengers, full payment will be charged. Delays will not be tolerated. We are a registered and licensed Non Scheduled Airline. With our fleet of balloons we can accommodate groups of up to 64 (sixty four passengers) and the average flight varies in height from brushing the top of the trees to touching the clouds.  We look forward to welcome you on-board in the near future. For bookings and enquiries, contact Waterfall Balloon telephonically on 072 736 1074 or 011 802 4318 or via email at waterfall.balloon@gmail.com. 