 MBOMBELA – Albert Pienaar was appointed as the new head of Penryn College on June 11, while Grant Williams was appointed as the Penryn executive head in January.  Both of them have a long history in teaching as well as managing schools. Pienaar moved to the Lowveld in 2005 and was appointed as head of house at Uplands. Before this he was a maths teacher at Grey College for six years. He taught in London for two years before that. In July 2014 Pienaar was appointed as deputy head at Penryn College and will continue to teach maths until the beginning of July. Grant Williams. “I am sad not to be teaching anymore, because the contact with the students is very important for me. Luckily my wife and I stay on the school grounds where I am also involved at the boarding houses on campus,” Pienaar said, adding that he will also still do his rounds at the tennis courts. “I have coached tennis all through my teaching career. I love it,” Pienaar told Lowvelder excitedly. “My favourite book I have ever read is the autobiography of André Agassi.” Pienaar and his wife have three children and they enjoy camping and travelling together.  Williams, on the other hand, has been headmaster before, at, among others, Fischoek Primary in Cape Town and Dale College in King Williams Town, before becoming headmaster at Penryn Preparatory in 2014. “Several teachers inspired me when I was in high school, and my love of school and what we do as an institution were
born there.” Williams used to be a maths teacher too, “although in primary school we actually used to teach all the subjects.”
He and his wife have four children. He enjoys reading, “especially mystery novels, and I am also a bit of an amateur chef.”Both men echo the fact that Penryn has a distinguished sense of community and that they want to celebrate the diversity of our country by incorporating it into their school. “We need to help children focus on their strengths and have well-balanced students,” Pienaar said. Albert Pienaar. They believe that Penryn can, through its own example, change and improve education in the Lowveld with Williams adding, “Here, what you see is what you get, and we want to continue to prepare our students to adequately face the ever-changing world.” READ ALSO: Penryn achieves highest ever bachelor’s degree pass