 MBOMBELA – She is one of the 250 international students and foreign personnel from the Harvest School flown to safety from the violent north of Mozambique. Schmidt told Lowvelder that people were massacred two hours’ drive from Pemba, the capital of Cabo Delgado Province bordering Tanzania, and they did experience some hostility from local people who threw rocks on the roof of the hall while they worshipped. A week ago the situation in the province took a turn for the worse when they were restricted to their quarters as Mozambican troops started moving into town, setting up roadblocks across the area. ALSO READ: Beheadings in six villages in northern Moz “We did not really know what was going on because we had no access to any kind of media,” Schmidt said. During one of the church services, a woman told the congregation of the horror of witnessing the attackers beheading her husband. Schmidt matriculated from Hoërskool Nelspruit in 2014 and finished her BComm degree at the North West University when she decided not to carry on with her honours degree, but rather choose a career as a missionary worker. Carina Schmidt soon after she arrived back from Mozambique this week. Photo: De Wet Potgieter She arrived in Pemba at the end of last month to start with the missionary training course which was supposed to be completed by August 3. The training school will now be relocated to White River. According to Schmidt, the head of the Harvest School and American missionary, Heidi Baker and her husband, Rolland, refused to follow them back to South Africa. Laura Taranto, the executive assistant to Baker, said despite the danger, Heidi and Rolland will stay behind for the time being. Taranto told CBN News, “In the last few weeks these attacks have intensified in frequency and brutality. “Each attack has involved killing and burning houses. People were beheaded in at least six villages, two of which are within two hours’ drive of our Pemba base. Villagers are fleeing for their lives, carrying nothing with them, and have become refugees in the bush or on offshore islands.” Also read : Isis fighters infiltrate neighbouring Mozambique 