 WHITE RIVER – According to the Hawks, the man known as “Mr Big” is at the centre of rhino poaching in the Kruger National Park. Petrus Sydney Mabuza (49) has been compared to the likes of alleged poaching kingpin Joe Nyalungu, who has been on trial since 2011. Mr Big gained even more notoriety yesterday when one of his supporters threatened with gun violence during his bail application in the White River Magistrate’s Court. READ ALSO: The person behind ‘Mr Big’ “Security guards overheard someone in the gallery indicating that he was about to shoot someone. They made alarm and the courtroom was evacuated. Once the police’s tactical response team cleared the area, the case resumed,” a source close to the investigation said yesterday. The source speculated that the intended victim of the shooting would probably have been someone involved in the case against Mr Big. “He is the crucial point of receiving and distributing rhino horn,” testified Col Johan Jooste on Wednesday. The courtroom was packed with more than 100 of Mabuza’s supporters. They listened intently as Jooste described the steps leading to one of the most monumental arrests in South Africa’s war on poaching. He placed on record that Mabuza’s involvement in rhino poaching activities was first suspected in 2005. Since then, the name “Mr Big” would pop up during many a police investigation. Senior state advocate Vernon Nemaroani. In 2017 Lowvelder reported that a discarded coolbox containing rhino horns was found outside a Hazyview residence. No arrests were made at the time, but the coolbox case became one of many threads leading the Hawks to Mabuza’s doorstep. “Mr Big” sat next to three others. They were his co-accused Nozwelo Mahumane, Moshe Thobela and Romance Khoza. Apart from stating that they were co-accused in this case, senior state advocate Vernon Nemaorani did not say much about them. The focus was on Mabuza, who periodically shook his head. Through his legal representative, he denied having committed any crime and indicated his intention to plead not guilty to the six charges levelled at him. Jooste testified that intelligence involving Mabuza has always been widespread. Obtaining evidence linking the seemingly squeaky clean businessman to acts of poaching required patience, skillful investigations, strategy and an undercover operation. Nemaorani pressed Jooste on how the arrest came about. “Information was reported to our office by a private person with access to informers. The man identified ‘Mr Big’ as a rhino horn buyer from Hazyview,” Jooste stated. According to his source, Mabuza could not resist the opportunity to get his hands on horns with a black market street value of R120 000 per kilogram. The Directory of Priority Crimes Investigation (DPCI, also known as the Hawks) obtained a warrant authorising an undercover operation aimed at exposing Mabuza. A court employee releases Petrus Sydney “Mr Big” Mabuza from the holding cell into the court room. Informants and undercover policemen contacted  “Mr Big”, who was willing to trade. “A total of
R280 000 was received,” recalled Jooste. Although Mabuza paid only R280 000, a statement from SANParks’ Environmental Crime Investigations Unit indicated its value was R900 000. The horns were placed in a white BMW, allegedly driven by Thobela. The car’s details were passed on to members of the N4 Highway Patrol who pulled the vehicle off between Middelburg and eMalahleni. Meanwhile, warrants authorised the Hawks to search his two Hazyview
homes and Jooste made his way to Mr Big’s house in Elawini Lifestyle Estate in Mbombela. READ ALSO: The truth behind poaching syndicates “I was joined by other members and we gained permission to search his vehicle. Three nine-millimetre rounds and a bundle of South African identity documents and SASSA cards were found,” Jooste recorded. All in all, the searches at the various premises produced a high-calibre hunting rifle, a rifle with a filed off serial number, a silencer and bank cards.  According to Jooste, Mabuza is a high-ranking player in the poaching syndicate. “He is a typical level-three operator with total control of his operations and how they are conducted,” he said. He explained that Mabuza used lower-placed individuals to kill rhinos, remove their horns and transport them to him without being detected. Outside the courtroom, a source close to the investigation speculated that “Mr Big” may be behind up to 70 per cent of poaching in the Kruger. The bail hearing was postponed to July 3.  