 MONTREAL – Sappi Southern Africa won a Gold Quill Award at the International Association of Business Communications awards held in Canada last Tuesday. The Gold Quill Awards programme recognises business communication excellence globally, and is acknowledged as one of the most prestigious awards in the industry. Elsabe Coetzee, regional communications manager and communication strategy leader for Stop and Think Before You Act (STBA), flew halfway around the world with Caren Venter, STBA creative lead and implementer in Mpumalanga, to receive the award.
STBA is a safety initiative by Sappi Forests driven by a powerful behaviour-change campaign to improve safety performance and make Sappi “twice as safe” by 2020. It is based on a simple process of raising people working in forestry’s awareness of potential risks and to stop and think about these before they act. The Sappi team engaged with primary stakeholders to develop a new approach to communicating safety that transcends language and cultural barriers. “We didn’t expect the award, but we are very happy and proud,” Coetzee told Lowvelder.
She explained that they developed a storytelling approach which workers could engage with on an emotional level. The process was written into a visual story with key characters and images to which they could relate. “Together with the workers, we developed main characters of the safety stories such as ‘Clever Me’, the one who is aware of the hazards and always stops and thinks before he acts. We also have ‘Stupid Me’ who ignores the risks and acts without thinking. This is not necessarily a stupid person, but they are behaving that way. And, more importantly, they can become ‘Clever Me’ just by changing their attitude and behaviour towards safety,” she shared. The STBA has led to changing behaviour at work and at home and Sappi has seen initiative being taken more often when considering situations and identifying risks and hazards on the whole.
Leander Jarvel, formerly general manager of forestry for KwaZulu-Natal, said in a statement that the benefits of the communication strategy were easy to see. “In my 14 years of operational management I have never seen a campaign take traction with the contract owners, managers and their staff like STBA. At all levels there is enthusiasm for the simplicity of the message. It is so rewarding to hear contractors talk about the operators and supervisors in their businesses identifying and mitigating risks in their operations. No short cuts. Practising what is preached.” Also read: New GM takes the helm at Sappi