 They referred to him as a colourful character. He loves bikes and trucks – American bikes and trucks, that is! “He does have a softer side,” they are quick to add. “Don’t let the long hair, cowboy hat and the fact that he loves a good party confuse you,” they said. And here’s your lingo lesson for today: In journo language, they refer to many sources of information and observation. Now I also love heavy long-distance trucks, and have a license to drive them, so we went for a short, gentle drive through town. Gentle yes, because I was observing my driver – the expression on his face said it all. “Eish man, I wonder if I should not perhaps stretch this ride all the way to Hazyview for one of those magnificent burgers at Pioneer’s Grill. “All of this, and more, happens while he gently shifts gears without engaging the clutch. Yes, it is possible if you watch the revs. His 1999 long nose International 9400 with its luxury cabin, fitted with some extras like a quality sound system and so forth, is a popular long-haul tractor trailer, especially overseas. Locally, however, the South African road regulations prohibit the use of it due to the longer cab dictating the use of shorter trailers and of course, less freight. Read more: Jaguar I-Pace is exhilaratingly electric This again influences the cost-effective transport of goods. So this particular unit is mostly used for leisure and the love of driving the open road in a magnificent vehicle. Robert Lemmon is the owner of Macman Vehicle Services in Mbombela. “I have, from when I was little, always loved trucks,” he says. “Although born in Cape Town, I grew up in White River and the then Nelspruit. After completing matric, his call up for military service was met with some trepidation but he eventually landed up in the intel division in Mbombela with the rank of Lieutenant. Now just before his enlistment, and as a result of his interest in becoming a diesel mechanic or engineer, a good friend invited him to work at ERF to fill the two months before starting military training. He grabbed this opportunity with both hands and this eventually, after military training, landed him an apprenticeship with ERF. He creamed his trade test at Oliphantsfontein like a rock star with a 91% average. Robert, who admits to also sporting somewhat of a short fuse (which has improved significantly with age though) has learned that everyone, irrespective of your academic scores or IQ, makes mistakes. “I have however become a lot more successful in minimising and rectifying the latter. I have also learned that while four wheels move the body, two wheels move the soul and sobers the mind,” he says. This is deep man… really deep! In 1999 he decided though that it is time to do his own thing and he together with a business partner John Jelly started with one bakkie and a toolbox doing call-outs for various customers. Read more: Activities abound at the Nelspruit Motor Show In 2008 Macman Vehicle Services became an accredited parts and service dealership for International. At the time they were sharing working space with Van Wettens Breakdown Services. “Their contribution to our success is something that we will always treasure.” The Lemmon family crest proudly on the rear of the truck “Downtime is a serious challenge for truck owners because the purpose of their vehicles is to generate income. The implications can be severe. It is not like a car which is a mode of transport from A to B. And this is where we excel with our service delivery,” he says. Having customers who have been with us for more than 20 years e.g. Goldfields, to name but one, is prove that we deliver, even when faced with challenges and time constraints. Our, my biggest reward is when we execute a repair and the grateful driver can be on his way. Our experience has often enabled us to repair that which many others, who tried before us, could not. Our comeback percentage is negligible compared to the amount of work performed.” Truckers are always blamed for wrecking the roads but as Robert explained, this is not necessarily true. “Ja well, bikes? He reminisced about the many bike rallies he has been to and a little about his Harley’s which seem to be taking a backseat to the 9400. “I am sure there is or was much more to this than even he would admit too but then again – what happens in the kitchen stays in the kitchen – right? Also read: KTM RC 390 will make you smile, every day Trucks are designed to allow for the optimum spread of weight across all axles. But yes, those over-loaders out there, screw this intention and with the lack of proper road management, the damage to roads are excessive. Also, some truckers use back roads that were never design to carry heavy loads. Bottom line though, is that without long-haul and commercial truck transport and truckers willing to endure the often severe challenges, the economy will suffer equally severe. So let’s be fair with criticism and not use the big stick all the time.