 Glorious Lowveld winter weather did not disappoint on Saturday as the day dawned bright and fair at Canary Walk, and the participants of the potjiekos competition in aid of Pro Gratia commenced. Fires were lit, coffee poured (and a few beers cracked) and the preparation began.  Wherever you looked onions were being chopped, potatoes peeled and butternut diced as the competition heated up, along with the Lowveld sunshine. Gazebos emblazoned with relevant logos, each team decked their area out in whatever was specific to their group, and some of them went all out. ALSO READ:Savour the flavour at Canary Walk Mall’s Potjiekos Competition this Youth Day The Lowvelder teams were lovingly adorned with beautiful Indian finery and one of the biggest potjie pots on the day, as well as a rustic bushveld look which brought to mind country pubs where the beer runs cold, the fires are hot and the chilli sauce even hotter.  The smells emanating from the black cast iron pots, onions frying, marinades sizzling and spices releasing their exotic secrets were enough to have anyone anticipating the feast ahead with gusto. There were a few memorable teams out and about on the day. Hoenderbordeel certainly had everyone in stitches with Antonie Pieters wandering around in his black feather boa, planting scarlet kisses on ladies’ cheeks. The Radio Laeveld team as always had plenty of spirit, dancing to the music, while the kids were entertained by a colouring-in tent, hula-hooping and a rubber chicken toss. The star of the show truly had to be the Canary Walk canary, who danced from the early morning, entertaining children and adults alike with his infectious spirit and incredible camaraderie with the little ones. He carried them in his wings, bouncing on his spongy-soled feet and had them in fits of delight and laughter. The judges consisted of the Lowveld foodie club, Die Lekkerbekke, and they swanned about in their black aprons, sampling and jesting with the contestants as they judged the various dishes that were on offer. Wine was poured, ice cold beers cracked open and the odd stiff Johnny Walker Black Label splashed over ice cubes as the sides were scooped onto available receptacles – mostly polystyrene containers, which did not detract from the flavour – with generous portions of whichever pot was being tasted generously dolloped over the top, with extra sauce.  The winning teams were Hoenderbordeel for best spirit, ACS Security for best stall and Hoof-hearted Plaaskombuis for the best mystery box. A special mention was given to Benson Rewu, who works with the special needs children and is a star in his own right. The winners of the competition were as follows: Hoof-hearted Plaaskombuis in first place, ACS Security in second and Solidariteit Helpende Hand in third.