 LILLYDALE – Legendary photographer Sam Nzima was laid to rest in an official provincial ceremony last Saturday. Deputy president and former premier, David Mabuza, sang the veteran photographer’s praises, saying that through his photos the country was able to create its own narrative and tell the stories of the past. Mabuza remarked that Nzima’s death marked the sad end of a chapter of a great life, whose work made many believe in the possibility of freedom. “The news of his death brought sadness and sorrow to the entire world that came to know uBab’Nzima through his work. It is men like him who indeed come once in a lifetime to accelerate history. Deputy president David Mabuza. “As we pay our last respects to this great son of the soil, we can humbly claim greatness, because Nzima showed us that greatness is an outcome of extraordinary success against the odds.”
On the day of Nzima’s collapse, resulting in him being hospitalised, he had received the keys to his newly-built house. ALSO READ:National flags to fly at half-mast for Nzima
Nzima’s eldest son, Thulani, thanked the government and Mabuza for being there for his father.
“At the mortuary I made peace with the fact that I cannot change what’s happened. All that is left for us is to create his legacy that will tell the story of Mpumalanga in the fight for freedom. His grave will be a monument at the museum where photographs can be taken,” said Thulani. The funeral was attended by other illustrious guests, including Premier Refilwe Mtshweni and business tycoon Robert Gumede who also spoke. Mabuza concluded by emphasising that young people should be inspired by Nzima.  “We must tell them that to be truly great and to move mountains, they must cultivate love for their people – they can start by honouring their parents, the sick and the elderly. Let us seize this very moment to fight and defend our cherished ideal of a united, non-racial, non-sexist, just and prosperous society. ALSO READ:Iconic photographer Sam Nzima dies at age 83
“We must be able to say that although the perceptive eye and compassionate lens of the legendary Sam Nzima have gone to rest, we will be able to look our children in the eye and say we are a nation fully in tune with their fears and hopes. May the soul of this giant rest in eternal peace.”