 MBOMBELA – This beacon of hope for lost and abandoned animals in the city, is facing possible closure if something drastic is not done to help it. The Nelspruit SPCA is running low on stock and funds, and a break-in on Sunday resulted in R10 000’s damage. Chairman of the Nelspruit SPCA board, Lize Pienaar. “This is a major loss for us. We are already struggling financially and now we have this burden as well,” said a discouraged Ludi Botha, vice-chairman. According to statistics released by the SPCA, its outstanding vet account at the end of May was R2 837, while its food costs for the same month were R3 575. This does not include other costs such as utilities, fuel and servicing of vehicles, upgrades or salaries. According to Nelspruit SPCA chairman, Lize Pienaar, they owe Van Wijk Street Animal Hospital R148 450 and West Acres Animal Hospital R11 550. Nelspruit SPCA inspector Marcelle Hoffman. “The grant that we received from Mbombela municipality in 2017 was used to settle the debt of R450 000 that was left by the previous committee,” Pienaar explained. According to Pienaar, they receive an annual grant from the municipality because they deliver a service to it. “The process to receive this year’s grant is being delayed due to the fact that we are entering into a new agreement with the municipality,” Pienaar said. According to City of Mbomela municipality spokesman, Joseph Ngala, the former Mbombela Local Municipality had been financially supporting the SPCA. He said the new City of Mbombela is finalising a service level agreement to incorporate all the SPCAs in its jurisdiction after the amalgamation of the two former municipalities. The SPCA is doing everything to raise funds to help keep the doors open. “Fund-raising is a slow process,” Pienaar said. “There are seven members on the committee, who all have full-time jobs that keep us busy. We do not have enough volunteers to help with additional fund-raising.” Projects that the Nelspruit SPCA have launched to raise funds include the auctioning of a wooden horse at R100 per ticket, a charity shop and participation in the MySchool project. “We have launched a R10 project. We ask that every member of the community sign a R10 debit order for us every month,” Pienaar said. “Only then will we be able to survive.” Nelspruit SPCA inspector Marcelle Hoffman has to deal with difficult situations at times. She needs the right equipment and vehicles to do so. This also requires money. Pienaar also said there are a lot of misconceptions regarding the SPCA. “We are in accordance with the Animal Protection law and we have to prioritise cases. If there is a dog in the street and a cow with a broken back we are going to have to help the cow.” To help the SPCA, please adopt a pet, make a food donation or contribute funds. It can be phoned on 013-753-3582 or the website visited at www.spcanelspruit.co.za. READ ALSO: SPCA’s food supply still under 50% capacity