 Mpumalanga played host to the eighth meeting on agriculture and agrarian development of the BRICS countries last week at the Protea Hotel Kruger Gate. Hosted by the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF) in partnership with the Mpumalanga provincial government, delegates of those portfolios met with ministers of some of the five member countries (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa). The meeting was held under the theme “Reducing the negative impact of climate change on food security and adaptation of agriculture to climate change,” and preceded the BRICS head of states summit in July. The seminar focused on climate-smart actions and approaches to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improving efficiencies, enhancing resilience of agricultural and food production systems and ensuring food security. The key message was delivered by DAFF director-general Mike Mlengana. Climate-smart approaches of several community projects were presented. Delegates from each country contributed to a panel dialogue on promoting climate-smart actions to enhance resilience to climate change and discussed experiences, lessons learned and collaborative actions and projects. The following day delegates visited a number of projects in the area, including the Lillydale Home-Based Care project in Bushbuckridge Local Municipality, and research projects of the Agricultural Research Council (ARC) in Mbombela. At Lillydale the international delegates learned more about the project’s Vaseline and vegetables production. The centre was established and is run by 14 women with the purpose of providing a home or shelter for victims of HIV/Aids. The project has managed to create 35 jobs and attracted more than 200 volunteers who work as carers. It operates on four hectares on which vegetables are planted. Vaseline oil is produced from sisal harvested on an old project nearby, once managed by the former GaZankulu Homeland Government. They hope to secure more land where sisal will be planted in order to expand the Vaseline production.  At the ARC, delegates were introduced by Dr Karin Hannweg to research projects on the water needs of avocado trees, manipulation of litchi trees to adapt to climate change, and further laboratory research on the breeding of better adapted crops.  Hosting premier, Refilwe Mtshweni, addressed the delegates at a gala dinner, saying it was an honour to host the seminar, since the larger part of the province is used for agriculture due to its climate diversity. She admitted that the beauty of the province depends entirely on the response to climate change and that global climate change is a physical reality that affects the entire economy as well as its supporting sectors. The province also finds itself at the centre of a dichotomy of the mining and agricultural sectors, both economic drivers but “uncomfortable neighbours”, especially in relation to climate change and food security in the country. As that illustrates the challenge in balancing South Africa’s food, water and energy needs within a limited natural resource base, she expressed the hope that the delegates used the opportunity to engage in finding ways to mitigate the negative impacts of climate change on food security.