 A wise man once said, “We are not what we do.” Now, if that is true, then who are we? That would be the next question to answer. And perhaps we should all think about this regularly as it will, I believe, remind us about our core values and what we would like to achieve in life. Also read: A heavyweight racer with vroom in his retirement She grew up in the West Rand – Florida to be precise. Completing grade 12 at Florida High and well, after-school activities and growing up within a biking family and dad having his own biking club, it would probably seem unnatural not for her to eventually become a serious enthusiast. And although we refer to the years when the 50cc bikes ruled the roost among the youth of the day, Bernadette’s first bike was a 1 000cc monster. “I started working in the hotel industry right after school, also working for Forever Resorts, and being involved with the club and its activities, I eventually became the organiser of all and everything, inclusive the organising bike nights and the rest.” Fifteen years ago she moved to Mbombela with her partner – of course, also a biking enthusiast. “I am an entertainer at heart I think, and love doing things that make people happy,” she said. She has been the local organiser of the annual Toy Run for some seven years and also hosts the monthly bike nights, which aim to introduce bikers to businesses and vice versa and of course grow the brotherhood. And let’s acknowledge the latter. The camaraderie among bikers, the manner in which they support one another and various charities, is just unrivalled and something to behold. This despite the many clubs that exist – the brotherhood and sisterhood philosophy is borderless and all inclusive. And then she admitted to sporting a firm and strict personality – maybe even a tad intimidating for many, but her steadfast and go-getter personality traits have supported her through much difficulty. “I love rock music, long hair, bikes, organising events and these are the things which sustain me on many levels. The support from the local biking fraternity in a sense, also demands my involvement.” Also read: Classic Ford styling an upmarket upgrade Her ultimate relaxation? “Time in a garage or bike shop, beer in hand talking or looking at bikes and whatever else with male biker friends. Men are a lot less complicated than females,” she chuckled. “And also, nothing beats parking my bike in the lounge and