 One of the largest Appaloosa studs in the country is the Lebombo Appaloosa Stud, situated in Coopersdal, between Komatipoort and Malalane.
It started out nine years ago as a hobby for sugar-cane farmer Louis du Preez and has since grown into a 154-strong herd. Du Preez came across Appaloosas when he was looking for a hardy equine breed that could adapt to the area and was resistant to African horse sickness, as the area carries a high risk. Appaloosas are originally found in North America and were used by Native Americans. They are also known as “Dalmation horses” due to their distinctive spotted pattern, although you do find ones with solid colours. ALSO READ: 10 Most dangerous animals in Africa The breed is very low maintenance, says stud manager Jan Louw. “You don’t have to pamper them, although we keep an eye on them 24/7. They thrive on very little and they’re very suited to the warm Onderberg temperatures,” Louw said. The breed adapts well in colder climates and is used for endurance rides due to their hardy nature.
The horses of the Lebombo Appaloosa stud roam in camps with natural grass and are fed concentrated feed once a day. They sleep in their individual “stalls” every night and are checked and treated, if necessary, when they come in from grazing. Appaloosas’ good temperament and versatile nature ensure they can be utilised for everything from ponies for children to dressage and showjumping. “We breed to improve Appaloosas, every season, every year. Louis did his homework before he started the stud and he has the ability to recognise a good horse. It was Louis’ goal to improve on everything from movement and size to temperament. And we’ve succeeded. We’ve gotten excellent reports from our vet,” Louw explained. ALSO READ: Where horses and humans roam together The Lembombo Appaloosa stud has bred several champions and won many ribbons at national shows. Louw stated that they’ve got great South African and imported bloodlines among their current horses. Three years ago they started breeding the Appaloosa sport horse, which is very sought after. This is a cross between an Appaloosa and a warm blood. Every October the stud enters horses into the National Appaloosa Championships in Parys and in February they compete in the horse of the year competition. They also breed Appaloosa ponies, as there a big market for them. This year one of their horses took several awards and was the Western Show Riding Horse Champion.Two years ago, one of their stallions was in the top 40 of the top 200 horses of all breeds in the country. Horses from the Lebombo Appaloosa stud have been sold to people across the country, as well as Swaziland and Mozambique, both for breeding and riding purposes. ALSO READ: Wild horse killed by a speeding motorist Locals can currently get to know the breed at the small riding school that Louw started about four years ago. He also conducts outrides for tourists. To find out more, visit their Facebook page or contact Louw on 073-540-1548.