 The Public Service Commission (PSC) has instructed the director-general (DG) in the province take action against Zibonele Mncwango for using state resources to defend David Mabuza. The PSC found that Mncwango, the spokesman for the Mpumalanga Office of the Premier, acted wrongfully by using government resources to issue a statement to defend the former premier against allegations that he was an apartheid era spy. This follows after the DA filed a complaint with the PSC against Mncwango. The PSC found that it was a private matter and that Mncwango’s actions lacked the “necessary professional ethics befitting of a public servant”. His actions allegedly amounted to wasteful expenditure. This is in terms of the Public Finance Management Act. He was also in breach of Section 14 of the Public Service Regulations 2016. ALSO READ:‘Missing’ Mabuza returns to SA in time for Sam Nzima’s funeral “During a question-and-answer session in May with current premier, Refilwe Mtshweni, she defended Mncwango’s actions, even stating that while the issue between Mabuza and Matthews Phosa was a personal matter, no government resources have been spent on this case,” said James Masango. “What continues to be of concern to the DA is that ever since Mtshweni was hand-picked by Mabuza to become premier of Mpumalanga, she has used every available opportunity to defend Mabuza’s corrupt legacy. And she has misled the legislature on multiple occasions for Mabuza’s benefit,” he said. ALSO READ:Premier is safe after protest “Mabuza used and abused funds designated to the empowerment of our people and development of clinics, houses and roads to maintain a corrupt patronage network,” said Masango. The PSC also recommended that DG Kgopana Mohlasedi must apply his mind to an appropriate sanction to prevent further abuse of state resources. Mohlasedi told Lowvelder that he could not comment, as he was sick and would only return to his office today. At the time of going to press, Mncwango had not responded to Lowvelder’s request for comment.