 The streets of the township were quiet yesterday with the consequences of this week’s protests still clearly visible: the burned roads, shattered glass in the streets and an exceptionally high number of police at the ready should chaos break out. But this quiet could only be the calm before the storm. READ ALSO: UPDATE: KaNyamazane protesters get paid to clean up their mess When Lowvelder visited KaNyamazane yesterday, locals told the newspaper that protests would starts again tonight. An SMS is also doing the rounds stating that the taxi association of KaNyamazane will be transporting protesters to close the entrances to Mbombela. The SMS calls for a “total shutdown”. According to provincial police spokesman Brig Leonard Hlathi, the police are aware of this SMS, “but not of the origin”. Some of the roads are still blocked. He said they cannot say for sure if the protests are going to happen or not, but “we want to issue a warning to the people. We will act against those who are doing unlawful things. We are not going to sit back and fold our arms”. Hlathi said the police have been placed on alert should protests break out. READ ALSO: UPDATE DAY 3: KaNyamazane continues to burn Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison (DCSSL) spokesman, Moeti Mmusi, could also not confirm the shutdown. In a statement released on August 18 they, however, “urged people to resume with their normal lives”. MEC for the department, Pat Ngomane, said in the statement that “issues raised by the community members are being attended to by the relevant departments and people should afford government agencies an opportunity to assist those who require services in the area”. The state of the roads after the protests. Meanwhile the premier of Mpumalanga, Refilwe Mtshweni, will be visiting the community of KaNyamazane tomorrow to respond to their concerns. A statement released by the premier’s spokesman, Zibonele Mncwango, said the premier has already instructed the provincial Department of Human Settlements to appoint additional contractors to refurbish houses that have been affected by the disaster and that contractors must by on site on August 21. READ ALSO: UPDATE: Tension still high in Tekwane and KaNyamazane