 A new addition is the Standard Bank arena, a structure of 1 600m², 20x80m. One of the unique breeds on show last year, the impressive Ankole cattle with their abnormally large horns, will be featured again this time. These quite aggressive bovines bred in Africa and mainly for hunting, were a great attraction last year. As far as other animals and livestock are concerned, a much larger reptile park is planned. Others on show will be goats, pigeons, miniature donkeys, horses, a cheetah from Moholoholo Animal Rehabilitation Centre, together with the ever-so popular pony and camel rides of the pervious year. ALSO READ: Beware of car break-ins Also on the livestock programme is a bull auction to be staged by Vleissentraal, Ermelo. Flight pigeons, exotic birds and chickens are just more of the show’s highlights not be missed. Demonstrations on sheep shearing and wool spinning are also some live activities not to be missed. As are the dairy activities and the daily school programmes that need to be booked in advance. The brave can swim with the crocodiles in the new expanded crocodile tank.
The family-fun dog show organised by Midfeeds will once again be a main attraction on the B field. This show will entertain young and old. Farmer dinners and breakfasts are organised and sponsored by Illustra, Landbank, MEGA, Standard Bank, Bundu and Bayer with all-day entertainment at the Farmer’s Corner. ALSO READ: Lowvelder’s longest golf drive competition a success On Saturday September 1 the Lowveld 4×4 club will entertain the adrenalin junkies and the children alike are not forgotten with a full amusement park. Sponsored by Selati, the women of the farmer’s union will take centre stage with the Jou Koekie of Myne? biscuit competition finals with a mystery box braai competition for the men. Dads, the Pumas are playing WP on Friday August 31, followed by a country and western evening. Put on your cowboy boots and dance the night away. A delightful food court and great entertainment area with a beer tent awaits you at the show this year. Be there. Phone us on 013-753-3622 or email Yolande@mpushow.com.
Watch out for our new app, Mpumalanga Show on Google Play and iStore.