 MBOMBELA – Landé is the wife of Land Rover salesman Adam Willemse (47), who was involved in an accident on his Yamaha XT 650 enduro motorcycle on the R37 on Sunday afternoon. Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison spokesman, Joseph Mabuza, said the accident occurred when Adam allegedly lost control of his bike on the road near the Hops Hollow Brewery turn-off. Adam Willemse with one of the twins when they were just born. It is suspected that he lost his helmet on impact. He must have rolled for about 40 metres on the road. The couple have three small children, the eight-year-old twins, Aila and Alex, and baby Arialle. ALSO READ: Man sentenced to 20 years for shooting two petrol attendants Landé is a former Lowvelder journalist, who currently works for Radio Laeveld. Adam also studied journalism, but gave up his studies to fulfil his adventurous spirit and went on a 13-year journey through most of Africa in a Land Rover. She said they had gone to visit friends who owned a farm near Lydenburg. “Adam and his friend wanted to make a nice day of it and rode their bikes through ahead of us.” Adam and Landé Willemse. Upon their return to Mbombela, his friend’s bike had a puctured tyre on the farm. “Adam had gone ahead on his own.” His friend received a lift from the women and children in their vehicle and they followed behind. ALSO SEE: Millions lost as Pilgrim’s Rest caravan park goes to ruin “As we came to a bend in the road, a car passed us and flashed his lights. I said out loud, ‘It’s Adam!’ My sixth sense just knew. I started screaming, it was like my breath was punched out of my stomach.” As they got closer, they saw him lying on the road. “We saw him. There was so much blood smeared along the road.” Paramedics treating Adam Willemse at the scene. She said paramedics on the scene had worked on Adam for about three hours to stabilise him before they could transport him to hospital. Landé went back to the scene later and discovered that the road had been damaged from a previous accident. He is currently in ICU. He is critical but stable and has sustained facial fractures.  Adam Willemse in ICU at Mediclinic Nelspruit. His right eye has rolled up into the socket and some of the surrounding muscles were torn off. “Until he actually wakes up, we cannot be sure what will happen.” He had swelling on the brain and had undergone a seven-hour operation. Adam was still on a ventilator and remained unconscious at time of going to press on Thursday morning. “I am in survival mode at the moment. I just want him to wake up,” said Landé. Mediclinic Nelspruit communications manager, Robyn Baard confirmed Adam was still in ICU, but stable. Mabuza said the department would investigate the condition of the road. MEC Pat Ngomane was deeply concerned about Adam. “We wish him a speedy recovery and our thoughts are with his family.” On Friday at noon his condition remained unchanged. Friends have started a support group for Willemse on Facebook. Join it here: Adam Willemse Support Group