 I think, and this applies to all of us, that when you think deeply about what you do, there will almost always be things you love doing more than others. And let’s haste to say, that there certainly are also things that require more self-motivation to get it done. In my case, the privilege of sitting people down and digging just a little deeper than the average and not even always necessarily writing about what I discover, is such a joy. We all have a story to tell, and how the story is told, is often more powerful than the story itself. Parts manager at Alan Hudson Motors, Lerika van der Vyver presents a live wire personality, strong driver personality traits with an authentic belief that everyone deserves an opportunity to step out of their comfort zone, encouragement to explore their capacity and, become more than what they think they may or may not be.  We are so much more than what we think and this principle applies to everyone – no exception. “I believe in offering internal opportunities for growth and promotion rather than always recruiting externally. When one grows within a system, the value you offer to both customer and employer, adds value beyond the norm,” she says. ALSO READ: Taking on nature’s toughest terrain with their 4×4 expertise Being born into and growing up in a military family, moving to and staying in the beautiful Namibia, more precisely in Oshikati and Otshiwelo, was such a privilege. This, despite sometimes having to be evacuated to a safer environment – “we loved having a bomb shelter for a room and the chopper and Flossie flights. In hindsight, we were a lot less concerned with the realities of what was happening than many of the adults and soldiers involved.” Needless to say dear reader, strict discipline and a good spanking were as much part of growing up as was Marmite on toast. “Life, well, life was free and spectacular!” Then in 1991, they landed in Skukuza. “Dad was the commander at the base there. The two years of living ‘the park’ was magical and then we moved to Nelspruit where I have lived ever since. I considered joining the army also but then, decided that I would be better off giving orders than receiving them.” ALSO READ: Mazda CX-3 releases interior and exterior updates After completion of grade 12, Lerika gained work experience with a number of different companies inclusive of vehicle renting, camping and outdoors, admin and so forth. In 2008 she joined Alan Hudson as a service adviser and this, she says, “was a challenging position and really taught me a lot, about me, about people and even about constructive criticism.” Her bold and enthusiastic nature eventually motivated her to ask that dreaded question – for another opportunity! It was granted and she found herself joining the parts department as the parts admin manager. The parts manager moved on in the same year and she took over that role. And today, Lerika and her team boast seven top achievement awards in the large dealership category. ALSO READ: Classic Ford styling an upmarket upgrade When she talks about this and her wonderful support team, she beams with delight and energy. “It wasn’t easy in the beginning though. I was young and still just a girl – the power struggles between the workshop and parts (typical of the male-dominated environment), sometimes got the better of me. The tremendous and constructive support (still) from Alan Hudson DP, Lemmy Dolezal, has been instrumental in my personal growth as a manager. This really is an amazing company and people to work for. “Success is determined by employing the right people in the right positions; it is not about race, colour or age it is about ‘can you do the work’? And because of the differences in character among my team, I have learned much. “I am not a micro-manager and believe each person needs to do what they need to and make their own mistakes in order to learn from them. Circumstances should not be used as an excuse for anything – make a decision and take responsibility for it! “The biggest challenge in terms of what we do is to have the right part available at the right time, or as quickly as possible and keeping the correct mix of fast/medium moving parts. We have a stock list of about 6 000 line items at the dealership while having access to two warehouses in the country that stock another 90 000 line items. ALSO READ: Blind biker has no limits for his motorcycle club “Success is reliant on various systems and people within that supply chain. One person not focusing will almost always result in challenging conversations with a customer. Be that as it may, these interactions always encourage us to apply our minds to become more efficient and mindful of the implications of our actions. “Everyone in this department works diligently to assist every customer where possible as quick as possible, and I am truly proud to be a part of this team.” Do you speak “French” sometimes? “I do yes, I am a bit of a hothead sometimes and it would be wise not to interrupt me when I do – that’s like pouring fuel on a fire. I have a five-minute rule regarding being upset, then let’s resolve whatever the issue is. However, if I am at fault, I will always apologise and take heed. I do not mind admitting if I was wrong. “You see, I like order, discipline (no surprises here), and I speak my mind (sometimes too quickly). I confront and resolve confrontation immediately – then it is done and dusted and we can move forward. I am logical, objective; I want the facts.” ALSO READ: Small track tests enduro riders’ skills And dear reader, I enjoyed her firm and adamant body language when she said the aforementioned. I also appreciated her emotions when she, later during the interview, referred to the untimely death of a child in the family and what this taught her. Lerika is adventurous; loves Warrior Race types of activity, paragliding, singing around a camp fire with hubby. She loves her family and spending time with her two kids and hubby, is preparing to start studying, taking pictures, once wanted to become a journalist and travel writer. Phew! Let’s just take a deep breath here – because there is more! But for now though, this has been quite a mouthful…