Not only can these foods keep you awake at night, but when eaten at night they can also cause you to gain weight. Remember after you treat yourself to these snacks, you don’t intend to exercies so the calories in the food are likely to cause an increase in your weight. Many of us don’t really consider what we are eating right before bed. When you are hungry the last thing you tend to think about is how the food you are eating is going to affect your sleep later during the night. There is nothing wrong with grabbing a snack before bed and usually the stomach gets what the stomach wants when it is growling, and so you are not the only one likely to reach for that unhealthy snack.  Chocolate is another guilty pleasure that should rather be avoided before bed. Not only is it full of sugar, but it is also loaded with caffeine. We also need to mention that chocolate will only have this effect if it is consumed in large amounts.  Ice cream can be really tempting, especially in summer. But should you indulge? Who can really avoid the creamy, sweet goodness that is ice cream? During summer, ice cream can become that pre-bedtime food to cool down. While ice cream will always have the reputation of being comfort food, many people don’t realise is that it is not something that you want to eat before going bed. Ice cream is filled with sugars and fats, and takes time to digest.  Where would we be without our quick and easy pasta dishes? These days, pre-packaged pasta dishes are readily available making it very easy to cook up a hearty meal. Although this is the ultimate hunger buster, pasta is full of carbohydrates that can make you feel bloated and uncomfortable.  Even with the best mattress, eating pizza before bed can have an unwelcome effect on your sleep. Pizza is not only a guilty indulgence, but it is also a quick answer to a grumbling stomach. Not only is pizza a carb-filled feast, but those toppings are potentially heartburn inducing.  Let’s admit it, love our red meat, even if our stomachs disagree with us. The proteins in red meat can do wonders for your body, especially when you are feeling a bit under the weather. However, when eaten close to your bedtime, your body is not going to be happy about filling it with protein. Protein can take longer to break down, creating discomfort while you are trying to sleep.  This content was sponsored by The Mattress Warehouse Nelspruit. For all your bedding solutions, contact them telephonically on 013 757 0825 or 013 757 1221, or via email at jackie@themattresswarehouse.co.za.