 An attendance of 135 000 people over three days was a record for this race meeting, which has been staged biennially since 2002. This was more than half the number of people who attended the three days of the Le Mans 24-hour race, won by Toyota for the first time three weeks previously, and 12 000 more people than watched the 2016 Classic. About 550 cars took part in the actual racing, from 16:00 on the Saturday to 16:00 on the Sunday. The good turnout of spectators was helped by the best weather in recent years, with no rain, and underlined the growing global popularity of historic motorsport events, where the Old-Timer Grand Prix at the Nürburgring – first held in 1972 – and Goodwood Festival of Speed – first run in 1993 – have tended to set the pace.
There are now annual or biennial classic events being held at a host of circuits, such as Spa Fancorchamps, Silverstone, Donnington, and many venues in places such as the United States. ALSO READ: Preserving the Datsun heritage for the future These events not only attract an amazing array of competing cars – many of them hugely valuable and unique – but the interest of motorsport enthusiasts in these tributes to the past is growing rapidly too. A record number of about 800 cars were raced or paraded during the three days of the Le Mans Classic this year, with more than 1 000 drivers having the opportunity to drive on the full 13,6-km circuit used in the 24-hour endurance race. The huge number of drivers included 11 former winners of the famous Le Mans 24-hour race: Derek Bell, Jochen Mass, Jan Lammers, Klaus Ludwig, Henri Pescarola, Marco Werner, Stéphane Ortelli, Romain Dumas, Gérard Larrousse, Loïc Duval, and Jürgen Barth. Other well-known drivers who were also involved over the weekend included Jacques Laffite, René Arnoux, Paul Belmondo, Guy Fréquelin, Jean Ragnotti and Alain Serpaggi. The cars were divided into six groups according to age, and then each group had three competitive sessions, each of about 45 minutes and including one session in the dark. There were driver changes too, as some cars had two or three drivers nominated. Each of the six groups involved in the series of races had a field of about 80 cars – the largest grids yet. The cars were most impressive in terms of both appearance and performance, considering the oldest – 1926 Bentley three-litre, Bugatti Type 35, and Riley Brooklands – were 92 years old and the youngest – 1981 Ferrari 512 BB LM, Porsche 924 GTR and Porsche 935 – were 37.
One could buy a ticket to get into the various paddock areas, so you were able to get right up close to the cars. ALSO READ: Taking on nature’s toughest terrain with their 4×4 expertise The addition of a 75-car grid for the 70th birthday celebration Porsche race joined the established Jaguar Classic Challenge, which attracted 63 entries this year, the thunder of 51 sports racers from the wonderful Group C era from 1983-1990 and the new Global Endurance Legend demonstrations for 78 GTs and protypes from 1992-2014 as supporting events on the Saturday. This made for a packed programme before the traditional 16:00 start of the first of the category races. Huge interest in each category presented had been sparked.  The first four categories of cars also had the original Le Mans start, with the drivers running across the track to their diagonally parked cars before roaring off around the track. They then stopped partway around the circuit for those drivers in cars fitted with seat belts to put their belts on before the race’s rolling start. (Seat belts are only required on cars fitted with belts in-period or if the car was fitted with a roll cage). Category 1, for 1923-1939 cars, saw diminutive Riley Specials up against Bentleys, Bugatti’s, Talbots, Aston Martins and Alfa Romeos, with a 1925 Excelsior towering over even the mighty Bentleys. In Category 2, for cars from the 1949-1956 era, one saw Jaguar C- and D-Types facing up against Porsche 356s, Austin Healeys and Mercedes Benz 300 SLs as well as specially-built racers such as the Cooper T39, various Lotus models, French Deutsch-Bonnets and even a massive 1950 Cadillac streamliner nicknamed “Le Monstre”, which had the shape of a slightly rounded-off brick! Category 3, for cars made between 1957-1961, brought together Ferrari 250 GTs, Lister Jaguars, long-nose D-Type Jaguars, a Maserati Birdcage, and several Lotus Elites along with production sports cars such as Chevrolet Corvettes, Morgans, and later model Austin Healeys. ALSO READ: Vragtrein ontspoor onder raaiselagtige omstandighede Category 4, for cars built between 1962-1965, saw truly memorable racers such as the early Ford GT40s, Shelby Cobra coupes, Ferrari 250LMs, lightweight Jaguar E-Types with more common sports cars such as Lotus Elans, MGBs, Sunbeam Alpines and Porsche 911s. Huge amounts of raw power were seen in Category 5, for cars from the 1966-1971 era, with later and more powerful Ford GT40s, a host of Lola T70s – one of them being the car David Piper raced in South Africa in that period – besides Porsche 917s and Ferrari 365 GTBs.
A surprise was the appearance of the American Howmet TX prototype, powered by a gas turbine helicopter engine, which hummed its way around the track with the front runners. The sixth group, for cars from 1972-1981, saw some wonderful machinery on the track, ranging from Ferrari 512 BBs, Porsche 935s, BMW 3.5 CSL “Batmobiles” to beautiful BMW M1 Procars facing a challenge from many Chevrons and Lolas which were very quick despite having much smaller engines. A immaculate Maserati 250F was on display at the Maserati Stand. There are also numerous cars – many highly desirable – available for sale from both dealers and auctioneers at various areas on the huge Le Mans site.
The infield areas of the event have also grown significantly over the years, with even more clubs displaying their members’ cars, a big village with more vendors and more entertainment. There is also a continual movement of cars and service vehicles around the site. Most of the service vehicles are period too, with World War 2 Jeeps and military personnel carriers as well as vintage buses being used to move drivers and spectators. Citroen Meharis and immaculate 2CVs transport VIPs and drivers around the paddock area.
Even the French police ride classic BMW motorcycles! ALSO READ: ‘n Bedrywige seisoen lê vir brandbestryders voor There are a large number of viewing sites with permanent grandstands around the shorter Bugatti circuit, while one can also watch the action along the iconic Mulsanne straight or at legendary corners such as Arnage, Tetra Rouge and Indianapolis. The Le Mans Classic is now a must for many bucket lists and it is certainly an occasion to enjoy and never forget.