We offer a creative and stimulating learning environment with a strong sense of purpose, which encourages the development of the individual child. We believe that all of our children have unlimited potential. Our job is to promote academic excellence in a warm, nurturing, responsive atmosphere as we challenge each pupil to reach his/her full potential physically, intellectually, socially, emotionally and spiritually.  Our highly-motivated and energetic Pre-Preparatory teachers create a fun environment while incorporating an educationally-sound curriculum that assists our children in becoming global citizens ready to take on the challenges of their future. Our school is committed to fostering strong communication and cooperation between parents and teachers. We host annual events such as parent information evenings, a sports day, a grandparents’ day, our annual concert, charity drives, a praise-giving ceremony for our Grade 0s, and many more to involve parents.  Children are at the heart of what we do and we help young children to become happy, confident and competent. We believe that good self-esteem leads to natural and experimental learning.  The children are taught to love and respect each other’s differences and are encouraged to grow and to develop good life skills. Our academic curriculum and child-enrichment programmes take the whole child into account and are implemented with age-appropriate lessons and activities. Through the above, we establish in our children a sense of self-confidence, responsibility, self-worth, curiosity and a life-long enjoyment of learning. Our rich learning environment, both indoors and outdoors, provides opportunities for children to learn through play.  Fantasy and imaginative play are encouraged to build social and language skills, and to showcase a child’s vibrant imagination. An “investigative” approach enables our children to express their thoughts and ideas on a particular topic, and to build on what they know and what they want to find out. Children learn best through discovery and creative problem-solving. We believe that sport and physical activity play an important role in the development of a child. All our classes attend Physical Education lessons with qualified sports teachers.  We also incorporate the ‘Mind Moves’ programme into our daily routine. Mind Moves is a programme that consists of exercises that develop and wire the brain.  These exercises also help with concentration and focus. The spacious playgrounds invite children to extend their physical ability and develop body confidence. They use a variety of age-appropriate climbing equipment, sensory elements such as sand and water, and the open spaces to support their physical development.  Our Pre-Preparatory Sports Day is held annually.  This gives our children the opportunity to take part in a number of activities and events in a relaxed and fun-filled manner. A ‘Learn to Swim’ swimming lesson takes place once a week during a morning in the 1st and 4th Terms. A qualified swimming instructor takes the children in small groups to our junior ‘Button’ swimming pool and works with the children to help them become confident and water-safe, an important life skill. Our Pre-Preparatory children have the opportunity to visit our Music Centre twice a week and experience all the different aspects of music (singing, dancing, and movement) with a qualified music teacher. Optional piano, violin, ballet, singing, drumming, and pottery lessons are also offered.  Each class visits our school library weekly. A number of theme dress-up days take place during the course of the year.  Some of these include World Book Day, Kings and Queen Day and Pirate Day. The boys and girls are given the opportunity to grow in confidence through their performance at the Annual Grandparents’ Day as well as at their Annual Nativity Concert.  Thus, Uplands Pre-Preparatory School aims to provide a holistic start to a young child’s education. For more information on Uplands Pre-Preparatory School, contact them on 013 751 3806 or via email at admissions@uplands.co.za. You can also like them on Facebook for their latest information and school news.