 It will be remembered by the event sponsors as an extremely successful event, as both of their teams finished on the podium of the Production Vehicle category. It will also be remembered by many as a race where the navigators had to pull out all the stops for teams to get the best result possible. It was also a memorable occasion for Henk Lategan and Barry White (Toyota Gazoo Racing SA Hilux), who scored their first victory in a round of the series, although they tasted victory in the first heat of the recent Toyota Kalahari Botswana 1000 Desert Race.  Lategan/White started the race in second position after the 40-kilometre qualifying dash on Friday, but suffered a flat tyre early in the day. The same fate befell race leaders, Chris Visser/Philip Herselman (Atlas Copco Toyota Hilux) before the halfway mark, resulting in Lategan/White overtaking them to claim the overall laurels and the FIA Class victory. ALSO READ: A expert’s guide to macadamia fertilisation Visser/Herselman trailed the winners by 3 min 22 sec, and were happy to share the podium with their teammates, Gary Bertholdt/Geoff Minnitt, who walked away with the Class T victory despite having problems with their GPS during the first of the two 170km loops. Atlas Copco also claimed the Team Award while Visser/Herselman were the highest-placed privateer team in the Production Vehicle category. Bertholdt/Minnitt had a close battle with the NWM Ford Ranger team of Gareth Woolridge/Boyd Dreyer, who started the race from third place. The Ford team suffered two punctures during the first half of the race and finished a mere 53 seconds behind Bertholdt/Minnitt to claim the runner-up spot in Class T. It was a nerve-racking event for the Horn brothers, Werner and Johan, who started the qualifying race from the back of the field after suffering engine failure during an early morning test session on Friday and having to replace the engine of their Malalane Toyota Hilux. On Saturday they experienced alternator problems and lost time repairing at the service point. Their perseverance paid off, and they were rewarded with a podium position in Class T and fifth place overall. They were extremely lucky, as a mere second separated them from Johan van Staden/Mike Lawrenson (Elf Renault DE Team Duster) after a total of 380 kilometres of tough cross-country racing. The Renault team claimed the final podium position in the FIA Class, and were sixth overall. While Van Staden/Lawrenson finished only a second behind the Horn brothers, they were chased by the second NWM Ford Ranger of Lance Woolridge/Ward Huxtable who also lost time with a flat tyre early in the race. ALSO READ: Joshua’s love for reading pays off The pair had to settle for seventh place overall and fourth in Class T, only 17 seconds behind the Elf Renault team. The Brazilian cross-country champions, Marcos Baumgart/Kleber Cincea (Ford NWM Ranger) scored another good result in South Africa. They lost time during the qualifying race as they got lost, but that did not stop them. They finished fifth in Class T and were ninth overall. Jacques van Tonder/Sammy Redelinghuys (Ford Ranger) rounded off the top 10 and scored valuable points in Class T. There were disappointments for the overall and FIA Class leaders, Giniel de Villiers/Dennis Murphy (Toyota Gazoo Racing SA Hilux) who started the race in seventh place after losing time with a flat tyre during the qualifying event. De Villiers admitted the race was tougher than expected and a puncture during the first half of the race cost them valuable time. They had no luck during the second part of the race, when they had to call it a day due to an alternator belt coming off. ALSO READ: Vragtrein ontspoor onder raaiselagtige omstandighede The Class S winners, David Huddy/Gerhard Schutte (Nissan Navara) were delighted with their class victory. They finished just outside the top 10, with the rest of the Class S podium including Jannie and Chris Visser (Toyota Hilux) who could not complete qualifying but were happy to finish the race and Rory Eland, who participated in his first cross-country race, rounded off the Class S podium with navigator, Robbie Coetzee (Ford Ranger). A broken left front driveshaft forced Richard Leeke/Danie Stassen (BMW X3) to limp home after qualifying, but they persevered and received the chequered flag as the seventh team in Class T while they finished 12th overall. They were followed by the Red-Lined Motorsport Nissan Navara of George Smalberger/Chris Brand.
Toyota won the coveted Manufacturer’s Award.