 KOMATIPOORT – Members of SAPS, the traffic department, Department of Home Affairs’ custom officials and the South African Revenue Service conducted a joint operation at the Lebombo Border Post on Monday. The team stopped a sedan coming from Mozambique, checked it for roadworthiness and searched it. When they moved to search the engine compartment, the driver told them the bonnet was difficult to open. He pretended to be looking for a tool to open it and fled. The team managed to open the bonnet and found the packages of drugs neatly packed inside. The bags of heroin that were packed in the vehicle’s engine compartment. Police are investigating the case and anyone with information that could assist them can contact Sgt Danny Sanderson of the Hawks on 082-462-1817 or the SAPS Crime Stop number on 08600-10111. READ: Dagga smuggler tries to bribe police The MEC for Community Safety, Security and Liaison, Pat Ngomane, urged police to catch the suspect as soon as possible to ensure he faces the consequences of his actions. He said that police are in possession of the suspect’s driving licence and that he is known to people in the area. Ngomane appealed to agencies along the border and at ports of entry to remain diligent to ensure illicit goods and undocumented citizens do not enter the country. READ: Officials reassure community that border crime will be addressed The MEC also stated that the duties of traffic officers include enforcing the traffic rules and regulations and ensuring those that transgress are prosecuted. The officers facilitate the safe transportation of goods and passengers and ensure the roadworthiness of vehicles and that motorists are fit to be on the road. READ: TRAC warns against overloading vehicles He said that it was very encouraging to see that they also stop drugs from being transported into the country. Police in KaMhlushwa also had a successful stop-and-search operation last Wednesday morning and seized around two kilograms of dagga. Const Zithulele Mhlongo explained that three members of a sector team were attending to a complaint and decided to do a random search of a taxi at One Tree Hill around 08:15. After stopping the taxi, they searched the passengers and found a 25-year-old man in possession of around two kilograms of dagga. He was arrested. Const Happiness Lubisi and Const Forgive Ngomane with the dagga recovered during a search. The Pretoria resident reportedly came all the way to Madadeni to collect the dagga from his relatives. READ: Criminals come up with new strategies to transport dagga KaMhlushwa SAPS station commander, Capt Mzwandile Nyambi urged people to stay away from substance abuse. He also raised his concerns about the crime in the station’s policing area and urged officials to raise their standard of preventing and combating crime. The various commanders under him committed that their members would conduct visible policing and investigate thoroughly to effect arrests.