 MBOMBELA – The science week event  was hosted by the Department of Science and Technology, in conjunction with the South African Agency for Science and Technology Advancement (SAASTA) and the National Research Foundation. This year’s theme was science and democracy. It started on July 28 with an exhibition and speeches at the University of Mpumalanga’s Mbombela campus. Lehane Sibanda, Ncobile Myanga and Nonhlahla Nkambule viewing the peculiar pendulum. The theme showcased the fact that through science, children can take democracy forward by improving the country’s footprint in the international science industry. One of the hosts for the week was Penryn’s community initiative, Penreach. Throughout the week they welcomed an abundance of children at the school where there was an exhibition, talks by Sembcorp Sililumanzi and Unisa and practical demonstrations by the Penreach science team. ALSO READ: Do you have what it takes to be a TV star? The schoolchildren who attended were also treated to a field trip to the Manganese Metal Company. Penreach’s Sanette Mattheus said it is really a privilege for them to work with SAASTA year after year during Science Week. Akhumzi Mgwenya during one of the activities. “I am very excited to be a part of the week where children who would not necessarily be exposed to the fun side of science can see what happens here and also see the different career opportunities that are available.” On Friday Penreach’s Early Childhood Development schools also attended a practical workshop with different stalls at a crèche in KaBokweni. SAASTA representative Lithikazi Masilela, who also attended, said it is important for them to cultivate young minds. ALSO READ: Middelburg edge Nelspruit in thriller “We must generate interest for science from a very young age, and I wish there were even more schools that could have the privilege of attending science week,” Masilela said. Jerry Muchikopa and Vuyo Sithole investigating the science equipment. Throughout the week children’s faces lit up as the saw experiments being done with household objects or the huge variety of career opportunities and bursaries that are available to them. READ MORE: VIDEOS: Welcome to National Science week 2018