 Autodealer Lowveld invited three heavyweight motorcycle riders (technically and philosophically) to ride three BMWs back-to-back over the same route. Following are their thoughts. former dealer principal, motorcycle race team manager and technician extraordinaire – retired but busy as hell. “Minimalist” is the one-word description for this bike. Forming part of the Heritage Range based on the original R nine T launched a few years ago, this version takes its styling cues from the scramblers of the early 1960s, which were nothing more than road bikes modified to race on grass tracks. Power comes from the previous generation oil-cooled Boxer engine, as adding radiators would spoil the image. Small tank size will limit the range, and this might be a minor blessing. Low weight means good acceleration from the torquey motor. Braking is excellent with a linear feel. Instrumen-tation is limited to an analogue speedo with a small multi-function screen in the lower third of the dial. You can scroll through the different screens via buttons operated by your left thumb. Handling on a smooth road is good, but when the surface deteriorates the bike’s one real fault appears. Unfortunately for me the suspension was minimal in comfort. I am not sure if the tyre pressures were incorrect (too hard) or if the suspension is just too hard. Hitting sharp bumps was a painful affair and spoiled the ride.
So, this one disappointed somewhat. Great to look at and ride on smooth tar, but not for me. Again, staying within their forte of making outstanding touring bikes, BMW started the GS range back in 1981, with the R80GS. But this was a bike with a standard feature that marked the beginning of a new class of bike. It had real all-terrain capability. Winning the Paris/Dakar a couple times, coupled to the new bike’s all-round ability, soon made it the best-selling range of bikes for BMW and in many instances the best-selling bike in class worldwide, an immense feat for one of the smaller manufacturers. The Rallye version of the current R1200GS, with the water-cooled Boxer engine, places more emphasis on making the bike easier to handle off the tar road. A different and much improved colour scheme – a blue frame harking back to earlier GS versions such as the HP2 Enduro, new tank colour and graphics – makes for an eye-catching bike. ALSO READ: Third-generation Swift reinvents itself Most of the changes are aimed at improved performance on the rough stuff. Although we did not have an opportunity to ride on gravel, the changes can be felt on the tar as well. The new Dynamic Suspension setup is comfortable soaking up any surface irregularities. As with the K1600GT, the electronics provide many different variations of settings to the bike. On a tightening left-hand bend we came across stationery vehicles which meant taking evasive action. I had to tighten my line and slow at the same time. The bike performed these actions without any untoward reaction. I was very impressed with the ease the bike answered my input. I last rode a current GS bike about four years ago. The refinement to the current engine is obvious with better response. It is much smoother, which makes a real contribution to comfort and confidence.This is a true all-rounder. We decided on a Le Mans type start for the day – and yes, the old toppies did not do too badly. Every major manufacturer of motorcycles has a motorcycle genre in which they excel. BMW were always top of the tree for reliability, longevity and comfort. In other words, touring bikes. From the mid-1970s they introduced the first bikes with full fairings and called them Sport Tourers or Road Tourers, RS and RT. Later they added Lux Tourer and Grand Tourer. So, my expectations of the K1600GT were high as I joined Thomas Böhm and Howard Mellet on a test ride via Kaapsehoop with a two other BMW models. I will not try to cover all the various technical equipment in detail but concentrate more on the ride and feel. The bike is big and heavy, weighing in at well over 300kg ready to ride. Once rolling, even at only car park speeds, the balance and tractability of the engine make the weight disappear. ALSO READ: Big personality with a love of big trucks and the open road Powered by a six-cylinder, another BMW forte carried over from the car side, the 1 649cc motor is tuned for smooth torque delivery. With “fly-by-wire” throttle control, the response to throttle movement can be varied. For example, at low revs the engine is less responsive to throttle changes – and therein lies the secret to the slow speed ease of handling. As the revs rise, the response quickens. On top of this there are three modes to choose from depending on the rider’s mood and conditions. “Rain Mode” reduces power and softens the throttle and as you change through “Road” and then to “Dynamic”, so the bike responds quicker. Dynamic ESA is the latest technology in suspension systems and in simple terms it is fed data about speed, lean angle and how rough or smooth the surface is and constantly changes to provide both a safe and comfortable ride. Occasionally on the ride the bike wallowed gently, but I must admit to pushing along at a fair rate. It was not disconcerting in anyway, more just a message of how a heavy bike reacts to certain undulations. Overall this certainly lives up to its Grand Tourer title. Comfortable, fast, and really confidence-inspiring. A little add-on is the wonderful sound of a six-cylinder on song. Owner of the Sabie Valley Riding Academy and Internationally accredited Motorrad instructor/adventure (dual bike) riding specialist. The last of the BMW air-cooled twin-cam Boxer motors is the most refined incarnation of the iconic opposing cylinder layout, and lucky for us it has a new future in the cool retro R nine T-range of classic bikes. Riding the bike is all about the low-down grunt of the motor and deep bark from the exhaust, with city riding a real thrill of quick direction changes and short-shifting the smooth six-speed box. Seating position is low and easy, with feet flat on the ground inspiring confidence ideal for newbie riders. Wind protection is non-existent, especially over the speed limit, but this is getting back-to-basics riding, where large screens that isolate you from the elements will dilute the old school experience of cruising and looking cool. Suspension is firm and sporty, ideal for smooth roads, so not aimed at long days in the saddle on bumpy back roads. Coffee shops, Breakfast runs, and tight and twisty roads is what this bike is all about. Practicality is not one of its strong points, but having fun on a cool retro-inspired bike is! The bright blue Rallye incarnation of the iconic GS is touted as the sportiest of the versatile dual-purpose traveller bikes, with refinements evident all over the bike with the smoothest gearbox, instant grunt and excellent handling on and off-road making this the ultimate go-anywhere machine.
Riding modes include Dynamic, Road, Rain and Enduro Pro. The latter, through suspension and power delivery adjustments, turns a great road bike into the ultimate jumping, wheeling and power-sliding off-road tool. We rode the non-sport suspension version of the Rallye that advanced riders will love, but what impressed most was the easy-going nature of the bike that beginners and ladies would feel comfortable on from the start, with a seat that is low enough for the not-so-tall person to get their feet on the ground. The small Rallye screen does a great job of keeping the wind off the rider but also gives the bike a “small” feel, quite a contrast to the behemoth GS of before. The GT abbreviation on this bike stands for “Grand Tourismo” but the South African version should be “Go Touring”, with me already planning a road trip with places like Paternoster, Prince Albert and Port Nolloth featuring on my imaginary destination list. BMW cars are famous for their six-cylinder motors and the motorcycle version is just as good, ideal for covering long distances quickly. ALSO READ: Know your rights when your car needs towing Speed is not the only attribute, with the “Grant Tourer” handling corners with consummate ease. The two-way quick shifter linked with the smooth motor is a real experience, taking the willing motor towards the redline during acceleration. Heated comfortable seating, electrically adjustable screen, generous pannier boxes and electrically operated reverse gear gives the rider and pillion everything that is needed for a great road-trip – not forgetting the amazing sound system to enjoy your favourite Johnny Cash album on the way from Pofadder to Patensie. Ex-national bike racing champion of the 70s and 80s and in active retirement – yeah right? Throw a leg over the new BMW R nine T Scrambler and call back the past. Powered by the venerable air-cooled/ oil-cooled BMW Boxer motor, the bike has styling cues – like its round headlight and upswept exhaust – that recall a time when a “scrambler” was a basic, rugged off-road bike shorn of any embellishments. Looking at the bike, I had a flashback of the BMW R80GS and wondered how this latest incarnation, or maybe evolution, would compare. It certainly looked the part, proudly wearing wire wheels and aggressive knobbly tyres. It fired up at the first touch of the button with a pleasing, deep-throated roar. My initial impressions of the ride were positive. The old-school, short-travel suspension – devoid of any significant adjustment – gave the bike a solid feel. But all too soon it became obvious that “solid” was an understatement. Any imperfections in the road surface were felt as jolts to the spine. Softer springs and harder damping would help, I believe. AlSO READ: Celebration of the old school VW Golf Mk 1 The steering, supported by a strong, non-adjustable damper, is relatively heavy, requiring a significant amount of muscle to change direction quickly.
The R nine T’s brakes – twin discs and Brembo callipers up front – do a good job, while the slightly forward foot pegs and not-too-high handlebars will be appreciated by those who, on dirt roads, do a lot of riding standing up. But is this a bike for the rough? I don’t believe so. The urban jungle is its natural habitat, in my opinion. Here it will tackle the commuter run with confidence, cutting lanes and winning the ‘lights-to-lights’ dash, thanks to a lowered (shorter) final drive ratio (compared to its R1200GS and R1200R forbears). It will also cut a dash outside your favourite cafe or craft pub, its eye-catching clothes sure to draw a crowd. BMW R nine T 1200cc Air-cooled If you were to choose the ultimate on/off-road machine, you won’t go far wrong with BMW’s new R1200GS Rallye – the best compromise between the base R1200GS and hard-core GS Adventure. The Rallye boasts a host of upgrades, accessories and components, including a re-designed, adjustable windshield, new, functional bodywork, great-looking spoke wheels as well as attractive tank trim. There are electronic upgrades too, visually presented on a new, purposeful display with a comprehensive array of warning lights and information screens. BMW have placed emphasis on the additional riding modes available, tailoring the bike for any surface you may encounter. In addition to the standard “Rain” and “Road” modes, there are more options including “Dynamic” and “Endure”. They are complemented by a Dynamic ESA feature with automatic suspension adjustments to accommodate different riding styles, loads and surface conditions. There is also more sophisticated traction control, a hill-start function and upgraded ABS Pro for better, safer braking. I enjoyed the flexibility of the bullet-proof, new-generation liquid-cooled twin-cylinder Boxer engine. It delivers its power and torque beautifully smoothly. There’s a new (to me anyway) electronic throttle for full-proof, ride-by-wire control supplemented by an anti-tramp or anti-hopping feature. In traffic, the bike is a revelation. I know various seat heights are available, but “my” bike was perfect for my height (175cm). I was able to put my feet firmly on the ground at the lights. The all-important seating-feet-hands triangle felt perfect on the move. Time limited my test to tar, so off-road capabilities could not be judged. However, I am convinced that this top-rated SUV of the biking world would be equally at home on dirt roads and even rougher, tougher stuff. All that would be needed is a change of “boots” from the street tyres it wore to something more knobbly in nature. “Impressive” is an often-overvalued word. But when used to describe the latest incarnation of the six-cylinder BMW K1200GT it seems somehow inadequate. This is a performance tourer of the finest lineage. Purposeful and stylish, it is also turbine-smooth – as only a mighty “six” can be – and extremely powerful, as you’d expect from a 1,6 litre powerplant. That said, there is much more to this bike, most of which is unobtrusive and intuitively functional from the rider’s perspective. When it comes to shrinking long straights, the big, 300kg (fully-fuelled) Beemer has no peer. Look again and the 220km/h mark has been easily breached. But no worries, a fast-approaching curve presents few challenges. A quick-shifter-enabled clutchless downshift and maybe a dab on the powerful ABS Pro brakes (which ensure safe braking even when leaning) set up the rock-solid machine for a sure-footed cornering manoeuvre. Cornering, I discovered, is one of the GT’s best attributes. Thanks to dynamic ESA, the chassis recognises and controls the suspension’s damping action for every driving condition and surface – even when heeled over at audacious angles. You can set the riding mode on the move – from “Road” to “Dynamic” – which adjusts the suspension baseline to your preference. Shock preload is adjusted while stationary. The big bike’s party piece is its reverse gear. It works using the starter motor and is there to pull the machine back should you get into a parking bind. ALSO READ: Classic and modern motorcycles on display at the annual 1000 Bike Show In summary, I found the K1600GT to be comfortable, with the adjustable screen doing a good job of turbulence-free protection at all speeds. It’s capable of effortlessly transporting two people and their luggage over great distances in the shortest possible time. With two cavernous panniers, the option of a music centre and keyless ignition, it’s a Grand Tourer in every sense of the words.