Eco Auto is a revolutionary and innovative virtual car dealership, where you have the option to either buy or sell a vehicle through their website.  Selling your car online means that you will get an automatically generated estimate value, which will be confirmed after a visual inspection has been arranged. Professional photos of you car will be taken, and you can continue driving your car until it has been sold. Once your listing is complete, it will be marketed on all of the local car selling websites in South Africa.  Selling through Eco Auto allows clients to get more money for their vehicles and enables them to move into a higher purchase bracket, giving them the chance for a possible upgrade. Buying one of their vigorously inspected and scrutinised cars will prove to be one of the most rewarding, customer orientated purchases that you’ve ever experienced. Your satisfaction and peace of mind is their number one priority. (function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = 'https://connect.facebook.net/en_GB/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v3.1';  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk')); Eco Auto now also boasts a fast moving service centre that does minor to major services on all vehicle brands starting from R799. If you don’t have time to drop off or collect your vehicle, don’t worry, they will collect and drop off your vehicle when it needs to be serviced at no extra cost. Want to wait while your vehicle is being serviced? You have the opportunity to use the free cappuccino machine as well as WiFi so that you won’t miss out on important emails. Not sure what kind of service your car needs? With more than 40 years in servicing vehicles, Fanie Loubser, will give you expert advice and assistance with your motoring needs. You will also receive a free wash and vacuum with your diagnostic test, while you wait.  For more information on Eco Auto Mbombela, visit their website, Facebook page or Instagram feed for their latest news and offerings. You can also contact them telephonically on 0861 NELSPRUIT (086 163 5777) or 082 908 2496 or via email at mbombela@ecoauto.co.za.