 I recently, and with great interest, read an article on well-known advertising agency Ogilvy’s decision to refound and rebrand the company to suit a new vision to synchronise with the demanding changes of their market. It is an interesting course of action. When was the last time you, and I for that matter, after some introspection made changes to support the changing demands within our own home and working environments? But let’s focus our attention on MAN, a prominent brand in the commercial vehicle industry. MAN Mbombela also recently made some changes within their management and staff structures, which created new impetus and energy. This has been further stimulated through a huge fleet deal with local transport company VR Cargo. And no, the deal was structured by Manie Jansen from MAN Hatfield in Pretoria and involves, eventually, 110 MAN tractor trailers. MAN Mbombela will be responsible for the after-sales function and maintenance support of this fleet. At the handing over of the first 56 units (54 to come) in Mbombela, owner of VR Cargo Shaun van Rooyen said that current economic conditions make large investment decisions, like this one, a challenge. “We cannot afford downtime and fuel use is probably the most important considerations for any commercial fleet owner. Also read: Jaguar I-Pace is exhilaratingly electric “We do have other brands within our current fleet but these will be phased out and replaced by MAN units only. A one-brand fleet does make for more cost-effective management and maintenance. And well, this partnership with MAN will not only lessen our fuel spent; we will also save significantly on service and maintenance expenses. “This delivery is phase one of what we are working on. Phase two will deliver more MAN units later this year. We will also move into a new state-of-the-art VR Cargo workshop/admin facility towards the latter part of 2018. Our success is driven by our staff. Instead of diversifying our carriage – which is bulk chrome – we have diversified our total service offering. We offer in-house weighbridge admin and organise and book ships and the rest. “This contributes to and enhances our success as a fleet operator.” “This is a fast-paced and demanding industry and we need to once again, become an integrated part of the local business and commercial community. And the new team will most certainly achieve this.” For recently appointed branch manager Louise Andrews, priority focus now is to re-establish relationships with current MAN customers and reaffirm its commitment to service excellence above all else. For regional manager Marinus Lubbe, this partnership with VR Cargo constitutes the re-establishment of the MAN brand in the Lowveld.
There are also plans afoot that will establish MAN Mbombela as a hub for Mpumalanga. Also read: The ultimate expression of Alfa Romeo style Interesting also, is that during a truck fuel index test exercise done by Focus Magazine in 2017, the TGS 26480 units proved itself as the most fuel-efficient units available in the current market. “So, we know it will serve VR Cargo’s needs well.” Head of MAN retail Clinton Knock said, “There are no less than 19 truck brands in South Africa. This partnership with VR Cargo will increase our traction in the Lowveld and add to our national 7,9% market share.”