 Frik Kraamwinkel, The Pretoria Old Motor Club’s chief organiser of this year’s event, said the club estimated that more than 15 000 people either had vehicles on show or came to Zwartkops as a spectator. “It is estimated that between 2 500 and 3 000 vehicles were on show, with paid attendance of almost 8 000 people, while we had 130 other exhibitors, food stalls and the like,” added the hard-working Kraamwinkel. This year’s Cars in the Park had the benefit of excellent weather and no significant clashing events, but it also underlined the growing number of people involved in securing our motoring heritage, as most of the exhibitors are members of motor clubs. More than 120 clubs were represented this year. Vehicles on display varied from one of the oldest motor vehicles in South Africa, a 1902 Oldsmobile, to some of the latest models, such as the 2018 Ford Mustangs displayed by Lazarus Ford, a long-time supporter of this event. ALSO READ: A mixed racetrack at the Oval event The Pretoria Old Motor Club (POMC), which was established in 1966, organised its first Cars in the Park in 1980 at its clubhouse on the Pioneer Museum property in Silverton, Pretoria, and club members displayed nine cars. Peter du Toit, the owner of Zwartkops Raceway, west of Pretoria, certainly does his part in preserving local and international racing history with his amazing collection of cars. This group includes icons such as the Shelby Cobra coupe, D-Type Jaguar, and Lola T70 together with a locally-built Ecosse sports racer (No. 41). One-make clubs were invited to display their vehicles at this annual show from 1982. More than 80 clubs were represented by 2005 and members displayed about 2 000 cars, which packed out the Silverton premises, so the POMC realised a change in venue was essential to cater for further growth. The event was moved to Zwartkops Raceway in 2006 and this has proved an ideal venue. ALSO READ: Dealership evolution necessary to keep up with new vehicle owners Substantial changes have been made to the parking facilities in recent years and an additional access road was in operation this year. According to the organisers there were very few complaints about access to the show. “Our commercial exhibitors were also happy,” added Kraamwinkel. First-time exhibitors included Partinform, a formal grouping of a number of major suppliers to the automotive aftermarket, which has been in existence for more than 30 years. Partinform claims to have the “cream of the crop” in terms of branded, quality automotive products, so the involvement of this organisation was a further indicator of the ongoing success of Cars in the Park. Currently it is the biggest motor show in South Africa in terms of vehicles on display, and also the largest event of the year at Zwartkops Raceway.