  The definition of feminism, according to Merriam-Webster’s online dictionary. Feminism and the fight for equal rights for women have been an ongoing ideal in South Africa. It’s particularly noteworthy in the women who marched to the Union Buildings in August 1956. The connection between where we come from (60 years ago) and where we are today is a result of the realisation that even though we may have known what it was that gave inspiration to the struggle for gender equality in South Africa, this ideal has not yet been achieved. The reason is that the struggle and battle for gender equality is a lifelong process facing different challenges each generation. South Africa has an organisation dedicated to working towards gender equality in South Africa; the Commission for Gender Equality (CGE). The CGE’s obligation is “to strengthen constitutional democracy, focusing on the attainment of gender equality in all spheres of life.” ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS : Woman raped after stopping to help someone Their mission is to establish a Constitutional institution with the sole purpose of achieving gender equality. As it is recognised by the Constitution that gender equality would not be achieved if it was merely treated as a generalised human right. The Commission for Gender Equality’s mission, vision and values aimed to eliminate gender inequality in South Africa. However, it is an important topic to address in everyday conversation and everyone plays a part in creating equality among the genders. “Feminism” was the most looked-up word in Merriam-Webster’s online dictionary in 2017, but knowing the definition and fully understanding what feminism means and how we can work to achieve it are two different things. Reading and talking to others about persistent gender gaps in social and economic areas, as well as the political benefits of gender equality will make you more sensitive and more enlightened to the gender gap present in 2018. If you don’t know where to begin, some of these books about feminism may be a place to start: ALSO READ: “The South Africa of Nelson Mandela’s dream” It seems women perform at least two-and-a-half times more unpaid household and caregiving work than men. Not only in South Africa, but in countries around the world, this includes cooking, cleaning, fetching water and firewood, and tending to children and the elderly. When women are solely or mostly responsible for unpaid domestic duties, they are less able to make a living. They might also work longer hours between their paid and unpaid labor. Women’s efforts end up underwriting the cost of sustaining families at their personal expense. A movement of women that can address these issues is critical, but we also need a movement of male feminists. In a world filled with issues, gender inequality is something everyone can work towards. Today’s activism needs to alter the way we listen to women and the way we look at them, recognizing the power of stereotypes to influence how we value people. One of the most important things you can do is use your voice to spread awareness about the importance of gender equality. ALSO READ: CGE not yet satisfied with gender equality That might mean participating in a hashtag campaign on social media, starting a conversation with friends and family, contacting the Commission for Gender Equality, standing up for equality at school or in your community, and supporting the work of other women who may be less frequently heard and acknowledged. To contact the Commission for Gender Equality, click here. 