 “The 2018 Euro NCAP testing was the toughest ever, with new and more demanding challenges on safety technology, including cyclist-detection with auto-brake and emergency lane-keeping systems.” “Overall, the new XC40 received the highest safety score among all cars tested under the new and more stringent evaluation system.” Someone remarked not so long ago that, “Volvo Cars’ technology has become so advanced that current tests cannot truly evaluate it”. It is a no-brainer – it is one of the safest vehicle brands! And while on this subject. Volvo’s slogan “Volvo for life” certainly does not mean that when you buy a Volvo you’ll be stuck with it for life, because you will not be able to sell it. That perception and perhaps even reality does not apply anymore. “Once you own and drive a Volvo, you will never truly want to drive anything else and people do need to open their minds to this possibility, because if you don’t, you may well deprive yourself of one of the best motoring relationships/experiences ever.” I say this based on feedback from Volvo owners. And yes, it is also true that many more would love to drive a Volvo, but just cannot afford it. Also read: Is this the most beautiful car?  When I saw the XC40 the first time, it reminded me of the FJ Cruiser. Volvo may not like this observation, but it is true – it did! The square, bold box shape with high ground clearance, high front end with the T-shaped headlights and a grill that says: “I am not about taking any prisoners and you better believe it”. Strong style lines across the bonnet. Man, this is one desirable SUV – correction, Compact SUV. I am not so sure about the compact bit though, because there certainly is no lack of interior space. Also read: A heavyweight racer with vroom in his retirement A day trip to the Kruger Park in the D4 AWD derivative of the XC40, and also exploring the various driving modes on the open road there and back, left Annalize and I, super impressed. Twenty-inch rubber, skid plates, lava-like rear light clusters and strong design lines on the sides – well, not just does it look good, these elements present one with a sturdy expectation in terms of the XC40’s on-tar and -gravel performance.
It did not disappoint. Open the panoramic roof and the extra “expansion” of light makes you feel like inviting the elephants to come take a sniff at your six-pack of tangerines and even the Woolie’s soup inside your Stanley! Although the C-Pillar is quite broad and bold, it does not distract much from the rear visibility and well, the visual park assist cameras are a blessing in any condition. The long and the short of it is the XC40 rocks! Also read: Hummingbird electric bicycle lightest of its kind The interior is not unlike a Swedish winter: fresh, suitably understated in terms of elegance, ergonomic but still utterly luxurious and to use an old adage – as sweet as Swiss chocolate. Touch control via the large iPad-like screen control centre allows for the adjustment of most luxury and electronic features like the superb and navigation system. The standard list of safety and luxury features on the XC40 is longer than most other brands’, inclusive of some optional extra features. I will not dwell on the interior much more, as I think it more important to elaborate a little more on some of the features and how they function. City Safety is included as standard in the new XC40. This system senses potential collisions, even when it is dark, and can activate the brakes automatically should you not react in time. City Safety provides three levels of intervention; warning, brake support and full autonomous braking, and uses a combination of instruments and sensors to constantly monitor surrounding conditions. The ground-breaking Pedestrian, Cyclist and Large Animal Detection technology detects and automatically brakes the vehicle in the event of a pedestrian, cyclist or large animal (such as cattle) stepping/swerving/jumping out in front of the car. The advanced sensor system scans the area ahead and will prompt you to act with a flashing warning light, along with an audible alarm. If you do not react to the warning, and a collision is imminent, the car immediately brakes with full braking force. Also read: Are you aware some South Africans are buying cars for their banks? Rearward-facing radar detects if a rear impact is imminent, and safety belts are tightened in advance in order to protect the occupants. Lights also start flashing to warn the driver and brakes are activated to help reduce the impact movement. Lane-Keeping Aid is a standard-fitted system that helps the driver keep the car in its lane by gently steering the car back if it is about to cross a lane marking, and if the car senses that the driver is not driving actively, or for example, not using their indicators. If the supplied steering intervention is insufficient the driver is alerted by vibrations in the steering wheel. The system is active between 65-200 km/h. The new XC40 can also help you stay informed by displaying real-world road sign information within your instrument display. This function also has the ability to warn the driver should the vehicle exceed the current road speed limit. Optionally available, is Volvo’s next generation of semi-autonomous technology. The Adaptive Cruise Control feature maintains the desired set vehicle speed but utilises radar to monitor the vehicle in front and automatically slows down or speeds up as necessary. In an evolution of this, Pilot Assist also takes care of the steering (up to 130 km/h and when lane markings are clearly visible) by continually monitoring the area in front of the vehicle, making the necessary steering, accelerator and brake inputs as required to keep to the desired speed, distance and within the lane markings. The Blind Spot Information System uses sensors to alert the driver to vehicles within the mirror blind spots, on either side of the vehicle. Cross Traffic Alert uses radar to provide information to the driver about vehicles approaching from the side – for example when reversing out of a parking space. New in the XC40, Cross Traffic Alert now also includes braking support, which allows the car to brake on its own if an impact from either side is imminent. This function allows the car to take over steering control in difficult parallel or perpendicular parking spots. The driver is prompted to control the throttle, braking and gear inputs. The “park out” function also assists in exiting tighter spots. During low speed manoeuvres, the Visual Park Assist 360º Cameras provide the driver with additional information relating to the car’s surroundings. A birds-eye view of the car is provided via four hidden cameras, digitally stitched together to create a seamless image on the centre screen. Run-off road accidents are amongst the largest cause of single vehicle accidents. To combat this, Volvo Cars has developed two support systems aimed at helping to avoid a run-off road accident from taking place, or protecting the car’s occupants in the case of an unavoidable road departure. The Run-off Road Mitigation function is designed to help prevent unintentional road departures at vehicle speeds between 65-140 km/h. Run-off Road Protection focuses on accidental road departure. Using input from the car’s advanced sensor system, the technology is able to detect a run-off road scenario. Distraction, lack of concentration, and falling asleep are major reasons for accidents. Driver Alert Control keeps track of the car’s path in relation to lane markings on either side by means of the camera in the windscreen. If the system detects that the car is being driven in an erratic manner the driver gets an alert in the form of an audible signal, as well as a text message and a coffee cup symbol in the driver display which indicate it is time to take a break. Also read: Classic Ford styling an upmarket upgrade The D4 twin-turbo diesel engine produces 140kW and 400Nm. During our weekend drive my average overall fuel consumption registered an excellent 6.2lt/100km. Open road driving with cruise control set at 120km/h often indicated a 5.4lts/100km fuel index. The driving experience is one of utter confidence. It is quiet, firm through the corners, steering is precise and acceleration is quite brisk when you press down hard with the right foot. The autobox is super smooth in both directions – up or down and enhances the XC40 experience. Pricing starts at around R480 000. And that is enough for now – go drive it!