 MBOMBELA – On Monday morning Desmond Molenaar managed to open one eye for the first time since he was severely attacked in his home on Wednesday. His wife Nancy said she was greatly relieved and that his prognosis looked good. Last Wednesday evening Nancy found her husband in the passage of their home making his way to the bedroom. He was bleeding heavily and wanted to lie down after he was attacked on the family’s smallholding on the Uitkyk Road. Desmond was severely beaten on his head and face with what is believed to be a pole. According to Nancy, she saw two men approaching the house and ran into the children’s bedroom to push the panic button. READ ALSO: UPDATE: Wife speaks about mysterious attack on plot on Uitkyk Road She suspects that her husband was attacked through the window. Only his wallet was taken and his bank cards were found in the garden. He was transported to Milpark Hospital, where they are keeping him under sedation. On Friday Desmond went into theatre, but according to Nancy, the damage was more severe than they thought and they just cleaned his wounds and did minor stitching. “The doctors are trying to reduce the swelling and are planning how they will do bone reconstruction,” she said.
Nancy is currently with her husband at the hospital, while their eight-year-old twin boys stay with a family friend here in town. “I am able to see him and when he is not sedated as heavily, he moves his legs when he hears us speaking. I was told by a sister that his injuries are severe, but that his chances of recovery are looking good.” According to police spokesman, Lt Col Erhard Stroh, no arrests have been made as they are still busy with investigations. Nancy has not yet given a statement of the happenings of the attack to the police, but she said she would do so over the phone as she wants to be with her husband. “I think he is in the best hands here. We have a very big support system and we are hoping for no brain damage,” Nancy said. READ ALSO: UPDATE: Circumstances surrounding attack on Uitkyk still a mystery