 Notching up around 1 000 units per month on average, Etios remains a regular feature on the top-10 sales charts. The hatchback models account for 65 per cent of sales on average (including the Cross variant) with the sedan models being popular with families requiring the generous 562-litre luggage capacity. The biggest news on the Etios front is the introduction of a limited edition model bearing the “Sport” moniker. Following the trend of individuality and buyers’ need for more expressive personal transport – the Etios Sport features a striking bi-tone colour scheme. Sporting a black roof and pillars paired with either Glacier White or Retro Red lower body finishing, the Sport proudly stands out from its “normal” Etios stablemates. Providing further differentiation and visual “oomph”, the Sport model rolls on 15-inch alloy wheels in a bright silver finish, borrowed from the Cross variant. Shod with 185/60/R15 tyres, they offer a great balance of comfort, nimble handling and low-rolling resistance. A Sport badge rounds up the package, signifying the special edition’s credentials. The Sport model is exclusively available in hatchback guise. The entire Etios range also receives a number of interior upgrades – testament to Toyota’s philosophy of continuously improving their product offerings. An all-new Optitron instrument cluster is fitted across the range, providing information to the driver with greater resolution and clarity. A new digital-sweep tachometer is positioned on the left with a full-sweep speedometer completing the gauge layout. Soft, orange-hued, backlit illumination provides a unified colour scheme. ALSO READ: A expert’s guide to macadamia fertilisation Motivation is provided by the “nippy” 1.5-litre four-cylinder power unit, producing 66kW and 132Nm. An outstanding characteristic of this engine is its free-revving nature and good, low-speed torque delivery. The responsive engine is paired with a five-speed manual transmission driving the front wheels, with a positive shift action and stylised shift knob. Fuel consumption hasn’t been forsaken, with the sedan registering 5,9 litres per 100km and the hatchback recording 6,0 litres per 100km. CO2 emissions are kept equally low with 138 and 136g/km respectively. The Etios range also boasts impressive safety credentials, receiving a four-star Global NCAP rating. This score was achieved courtesy of the following active and passive safety systems: driver and passenger airbags, ABS, EBD, seat belts with pre-tensioner and force limiter as well as ISOFIX provision. A full quota of headrests is provided with rear passengers also receiving a three-point centre seat belt across all models. Pricing starts at R171 000. ALSO READ: Mpumalanga Show ready to impress