 The Tzaneen Midas Rally, organised by the African Rally Organisation (Arro), an affiliate of World of Motorsport South Africa (Womsa), took place on July 27 and 28. According to local rallying ace Nick Theunissen, it was Arro’s 33rd event since it started five years ago. “Rules are strict, but not as comprehensive as many other events, and competition fees are also much more affordable, especially for amateurs and enthusiast rallyists.” Now here’s the fun part. who know this famous rally family will see this picture. Nick was navigating – a first in his 18-year rallying career. His daughter Bianca was the driver. The little Opel’s interior is obviously not spacious enough so, says Nick, “I was propped up like a little bundle in the navi seat and no, I will never ever shout at a navigator again and I will never navigate either. ALSO READ: Mazda CX-3 releases interior and exterior updates It was hectic. I was more off my notes than on it because you know, I want to see where I was going and of course being used to driving the heavy and large Beemer, your brake points differ significantly. So Bianca was still going crackers at those points where I would have been braking on the Beemer. Nick and his daughter Binaca who showed him a thing or two this time around. So guess what – I was braking and she was flooring it – I wanted to turn while she was going straight – no man, my nerves were completely shot.”
And of course, dear reader, I could not resist to drop a chirp suggesting that Ma Baker, Nick’s wife and the family’s crew chief, must have thoroughly enjoyed every moment of this? “You bet,” confirmed Nick. “The event was well organised,” said Bianca. “It offered a good mix of fast and rough and well, I did have a couple of close calls – some my mistake, others not – but this is between us. The navigator needs to learn to keep his eyes on the notes, chill and keep his voice down. We started in 19th place and surprisingly finished second in Class D and eighth overall out of 23 entries. Not too shabby!” ALSO READ: Blind biker has no limits for his motorcycle club Now I am thinking – can you imagine having had a GoPro in that car? That video would have become a family heirloom, not to mention the millions of hits on YouTube? I must say, I had a really good laugh while chatting to Nick and Bianca because I “saw” the video. This family is an inspiration – they truly are…