 BARBERTON – The woman and one of the hit men she hired to kill a policeman, Sifiso Mabuza, will be sentenced in a High Court sitting of the Barberton Magistrate’s Court on September 21. Theresa Mabaso and her co-accused, Wiseman Ngomane, were found guilty of murder on April 14. They briefly appeared in a High Court sitting of the Barberton Magistrate’s Court on Friday. Presiding officer, Gibson Ngobeni postponed the matter at the request of the prosecutor, John Maenga, who said he was not feeling well. Adv Johann de Necker from the Gauteng Society of Advocates, who was representing Mabaso, tried in vain to have his client released on bail until September 21. Also Read: UPDATE: Three people arrested for murder of elderly woman De Necker said she was not a flight risk and had always been available during court appearances. He said she could afford bail between R10 000 and R20 000. Maenga denied the application, stating that there was no merit in it. Ngomane also remains in custody. Mabaso was arrested after the incident that happened on March 8, 2013 at Langeloop in the Nkomazi area. She hired three hitmen, Ngomane, Victor Sibiya and Sindi Mvubu, to kill Mabuza. Mabaso had accused Mabuza of being a whistle-blower after she had been busted for dagga. Mabuza resided near Mabaso. Also Read: UPDATE: Accused in Liesl Nel’s murder makes first court appearance According to Sgt Nomsa Luphoko, spokesman for the Tonga police, Mabaso had promised to pay the hitmen R46 000 in cash to share among themselves if they killed Mabaso. She said she paid them R10 000 in advance and promised to settle the outstanding amount later. “The three hit men went to the victim’s house. They forcefully gained entrance to Mabuza’s home and a scuffle broke out between them. The hit men managed to overpower Mabuza and one of them managed to shoot him dead,” said Luphoko. The hit men then fled the scene. She said the suspects were arrested later and were in possession of the firearm used. “One of the suspects (Mvubu) confessed to the police that they had been hired by Mabaso to kill Mabuza. All three men and Mabaso were arrested. Mvubu became a state witness,” added Luphoko. Mvubu has since pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 20 years for murder and an extra 18 years for housebreaking and theft. Both sentences run concurrently. Sibiya has since died.