 Today is World Lion Day, and although everyday is an important day for lion conservation, today is a day to acknowledge the importance of nature’s ultimate feline. The question is, can we live without them?  This celebration of the animal kingdom’s most beautiful and fearsome creature was founded by Big Cat Rescue, the world’s largest accredited sanctuary dedicated to big cats. Today is a day for people to come together from across the world to pay tribute to the mighty lion in as many ways as possible. Though a fun and exciting occasion for all, its foundations are based in a very serious matter: lion numbers have dramatically declined. According to a study done by the Endangered Wildlife Trust, there are currently more captive lions in South Africa, than there are wild. From  June 2016 to the end July this year, 60 lions have been poached (in 21 incidents), all of which were in captivity. The province that had the most incidents, were Limpopo, with 13. The Free State had four and North West Province had two incidents in which lions were poached. The method? In all of the above incidents, poison was used to kill the lions that was being kept fro commercial trade, cub petting, interactions, lion bone trade and captive hunting. Its body parts, like the skin, tail, head, feet, mouth and face ends up being used for medicine and rituals.  The Global White Lion Protection Trust (referred to as the WLT) has commenced a public campaign to the hold Director General of Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) and President Cyril Ramaphosa – responsible for the legalised slaughter of 1 500 lions per annum for the Lion Bone Trade. The WLT have delivered letters to both President Ramaphosa and to DEA Director General (DG), Nosipho Ngcaba in a coordinated plan with other conservation groups to hold the DEA accountable and prohibit the captive killing of lions by the next Convention for the International Trade of Endangered Species (CITES) in 2019. Linda Tucker, CEO of the WLT notes: “I know I am speaking for all South Africans with heart, when I delivered my plea on behalf of our Lions to President Ramaphosa” she says. In Tucker’s letter to the DG of the DEA, she noted: “As I write to you‚ 1 500 of our lions‚ incarcerated under abysmal conditions‚ have been committed to slaughter houses in the inappropriately named ‘Free State’. Once vilified for Apartheid‚ our country will go down in history for legalising crimes against nature that supersede the wrongs perpetrated by the illegal trade in animal parts. For our international reputation and true moral compass‚ I call upon you with all my heart to repeal this heinous legacy.” In Tucker’s letter to President Ramaphosa, goes on to state: “No leader can meet the tasks at hand for land and for people without being a steward of nature, that living heritage bestowed by a greater Authority upon humanity to cherish and govern and pass on to future generations…Is this legalised mass slaughter of our lions South Africa’s legacy to our children?” As the President of South Africa, Ramaphosa is in the unique position of being able to override the environmental legislation adopted by his predecessor. Tucker’s Letter of Accountability to the DG of the DEA, addresses the loss to South Africa’s environment and cultural legacy and highlights that “this industry is not only scientifically unsound, environmentally unsustainable and fundamentally unethical; it is also culturally offensive across any and all cultures who hold nature with love and respect.” She highlighted the fact that the department is not accurately controlling the numbers of lions being slaughtered for this trade, and calls for an independent monitoring of the process. “The number of 1 500 is superfluous as research on this industry is now showing that this figure could be over double the official quota as there is no attempt at transparency through the recording of licence information, origin and destination of every animal slaughtered.” Mayhem and disarray as famed lion is still missing  As a specialist lion conservation body and non-Government Organisation with Public Benefit status, actively involved in lion research as well as working closely with indigenous communities, the WLT reminded the DEA that in Old African tradition, it is customary to name an animal as a token of love and respect [Credo Mutwa, Isilwane the Animal et al). “This ‘token’ is the least the DEA can do to earn the title of Department of Environmental Affairs,” she concluded. Also read: New Zealand to ban single-use plastic bags Millions lost as Pilgrim’s Rest caravan park goes to ruin