 MBOMBELA – The much-anticipated Mpumalanga Show starts this week and the city is primed to bring you an even bigger and more diverse event this year. Organisers have invited the Wildlife College, EcoTraining, universities and other training providers, South African National Parks, Mpumalanga Parks Board, as well as game farmers, game farms and game lodges, to be part of this auspicious event and proven communication platform in 2018. PREVIEW: Author to share wondorous tales of life in the garden Mining and energy will also be introduced this year, adding to the excitement and opportunities that will unfold with the new partnerships that will be created.
“Together with these participants we are guaranteed the most diverse and exciting event in South Africa,” said the marketing manager, Yolande Calvert. New ideas and opportunities will open doors for everyone in the province and encourage future investors to make their mark. “Tourism will increase as we promote our event and provide something spectacular for all,” said Calvert. GALLERY: Mpumalanga Show kicks off with a bang She added that with the support of our deputy president and all the relevant provincial departments, they aim to assist in the development and sustainability of agriculture, wildlife, forestry, tourism, mining and energy for the benefit of all races and cultures, to celebrate our heritage, together. Partnership agreements with provincial government, laid a foundation for municipalities to also assist with available resources and partnership agreements for the next 10 years.
“Together we are united in our diversity, (the theme for the Mpumalanaga) and guaranteed a successful future, for the Mpumalanga Show and all the projects, that will create endless opportunities,” said Colvert. Private sector participants are encouraged to collaborate with public entities, to break the barriers in communication. Farmers will be able to directly converse with Exxaro and MEGA to better understand the future of farming and mining.
“We, the directors of the Mpumalanga Show, Brian Ring, Themba Sgudla and Karenza Ring, welcome everyone to the second annual Mpumalanga Show, trusting that you will enjoy and benefit, while spending quality time with your family, with all the excitement lined up. Thank you for your support, lets show off our beautiful province and its people,” Calvert concluded. Date: August 30 to September 1
Time: All day
Place: Mbombela Stadium
Price: Thursday – R20 per person, school groups R10 per student
Friday – R100 per person, R50 for pensioners
Saturday – R120 per person, R60 for pensioners
Venue: Mbombela Stadium. Tickets are are available here