 The water footprint of foodstuffs is in the spotlight worldwide, and farmers need to be more aware of how many litres of water it takes to produce a kilogram of their crop. Speaking at a seminar on sustainable water use at the University of Mpumalanga in Mbombela, Theunis Smit, technical adviser at Mayo Macadamias, said research on optimal water usage in macadamia orchards was greatly lacking. “Water footprints are becoming an issue and the world is watching. It takes 1 000 litres of water to produce 850 grams of macadamia nuts. The same amount of water gives you one to two kilograms of avocados, or six to seven kilograms of citrus fruit. “But water-use productivity must also be taken into account, and by working (out) the litres spent to rand earned, the situation can be reversed. For every 15 litres of water you use on macadamias, you get R1 back. You will earn the same for 17 litres of water used on avocados and 26 litres of water on citrus. “So, macadamias are still a good investment in terms of where we must prioritise water use. But while farmers are still making good money with the crop, there is no incentive to try harder to cut costs and implement new technologies that will drive water efficiencies,” he explained. ALSO READ: Macadamia and avocado growers at war Smit recounted a recent trial that was undertaken on a macadamia farm where one orchard received the full irrigation volume, the second half of the regular scheduled volume, and the third no water at all. At the end of the season it was found that the orchard that received no irrigation water had the highest yield, followed by the orchard which received half of the regular volume, with the fully irrigated orchard producing the lowest yield. “But there is no one-size-fits-all approach to irrigation, as each farm differs. The problem is that we don’t know how little water we can get away with.”
Michael Esmeraldo, an agronomist at Netafim, noted that being a modern-day farmer did not mean using the latest technology; it meant using available resources in the most efficient manner. Also read: Pilgrim’s Rest businesses ready to open their doors “The minimum inputs must ensure the maximum outputs. Globally, only 20% of agricultural land is irrigated, and of this only 6% is micro-irrigated, while 77% is flood irrigated. This was not an efficient use of water. If one decreased the area irrigated, less evaporation would take place, resulting in efficient water usage,” he said. • Published in Farmer’s Weekly, a sister publication of Agri Pulse Lowveld on July 27.