 The Oliphants River Basin is in a critical condition. This could place the R1 billion export market, which relies on irrigation water, at risk. Speaking at a seminar on sustainable water use at the University of Mpumalanga in Mbombela, Dr Cryton Zazu, natural resource management coordinator at the Association for Water and Rural Development (AWARD), said that the whole Oliphants River Basin catchment area was being degraded by mining activity, an expanding human population, and an increase in agricultural production. “Ecosystems are disappearing. Most of the rivers feeding into the Oliphants River are in a critical condition, as they are either not flowing or are very polluted. The drought and an increase in evaporation due to increased temperatures have concentrated the pollution in the rivers as the water levels have dwindled.” ALSO READ: Outbreak of unknown illness kills two, affects 307 This basin was the second-largest irrigation scheme in South Africa, but also the fifth largest coal-producing area in the country. Zazu added that those making the decisions in municipalities with regard to land use were not always aware of the consequences of expanding or allowing certain activities that rely on water usage. “This puts further strain on the whole system.” Prof Moses Mbewe, dean of the Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Mpumalanga, added that it was imperative to ensure that the water pumped from rivers for agriculture was in the state it should be. “We can’t use filthy water, because no matter how much you wash the produce, the possibility is still there that someone can become ill.”
He said that since water was becoming scarcer, the country needed to start prioritising what it was used for. ALSO READ: Great South African bloodlines among Appaloosa horses “There are many things we are using water for that we should not be using it for. We can’t continue to flush toilets with clean water. Agriculture should remain top priority for water usage. Without water for agriculture, we would be hungry and naked. Everything we eat and wear comes from a farm and requires water.” The following was published in Farmer’s Weekly on July 27. This is a sister publication of Agri Pulse Lowveld.