 BARBERTON – A serial rapist was sentenced to 93 years’ imprisonment by the High Court sitting in the Barberton Magistrate’s Court on Friday. Mozambican Raphael Marathon Livanje (24) will spend an effective period of 30 years behind bars.
Judge Annamarie van der Merwe said Livanje did not show any regret after raping, assaulting and robbing his victims. “You didn’t show any remorse and you maintained that you were not guilty despite overwhelming evidence against you,” said Van der Merwe. Read More:BREAKING: SAPS sergeant arrested for teen rape The sentences were for crimes Livanje committed in Emjindini between 2011 and 2013. He was convicted of five counts of rape, two counts of robbery with aggravating circumstances, three of housebreaking with the intent to rape, one for theft of a cellphone and one for theft of a firearm. Van der Merwe sentenced Livanje to 10 years’ imprisonment for each count of rape, seven years for each count of robbery with aggravating circumstances, seven years for each count of housebreaking with intent to rape, five years for theft of a firearm and three years for theft of a cellphone. “The sentences on count two and three (rape and robbery with aggravating circumstances) will run concurrently, which are effective to 10 years imprisonment. The sentences on count four, five, six seven and eight (housebreaking with intent to rape, rape, housebreaking with intent to steal and rape and theft of a cellphone) will run concurrently, effective 10 years’ imprisonment. The sentences on counts nine, 10, 11, 12 and 13 (housebreaking with intent to rape, rape, theft of firearm and robbery with aggravating circumstances) will run concurrently, that are effective to 10 years’ imprisonment,” said Van der Merwe. The judge said it was such acts that made women call men trash. “The accused is sentenced to an effective period of 30 years’ imprisonment. In terms of the provision of Section 103 of the Firearms Control Act 60 of 2000, the accused is unfit to posses a firearm,” concluded Van der Merwe.