 With Triumph back in the fold here in South Africa, we got to sample all the new models on one fun-filled day near Hartebeespoort Dam. I got to sample the 1050cc, 150hp Speed Triple RS for a week to find out what I had been missing.
As far as naked bikes go, this one has flowing, almost soft, lines. Not the chiseled, angular lines of the Japanese offerings. The first Street Triple was basically a Daytona with all the fairings removed and with two bug-eyed headlamps stuck to the front. That look has been retained over the years.  The headlights evolved to less round units, and in its latest incarnation they look slightly angry. They still look like an afterthought on the front of an otherwise elegant bike. I still cannot make up my mind whether it looks good or not. Also read: Small track tests enduro riders’ skills Behind the light cluster sits the new five-inch colour TFT screen. You can select and change anything on the bike from here. You can even choose between a few layouts depending on where you would like to see the tachometer. To control it all, the left handlebar has become very cluttered with buttons. It looks like something from an Gripen fighter jet. It is at least back lit, so you can find your way in the dark with it. Once you have figured out what symbol represents what on the dash, setting a riding mode is only a few clicks of the joystick away.  The petrol tank is huge, and the Triumph logos sit proudly on the metallic white tank of the test unit. The seat is elegantly finished with red stitching, and although the bike has footrests for a pillion, there is a cowling where you would expect your pillion to perch. The RS model has Öhlins suspension and Brembo calipers which hints at the Speed’s athletic ability. The 1050cc engine delivers the power smoothly and the exhausts are brushed titanium units. Also read: Toyota’s toy simulated car the Camatte opens up a world of driving for youngsters They emit a sound that makes you want to punish the Speed just so you can hear it growl. The Speed Triple is a delightfully easy bike to ride. Even though Triumph claims that this is the most powerful Speed ever, it still remains docile enough for daily use. The plush seat is so comfortable that you can really go all day on this bike. The Speed Triple is no longer the king of the power hill, but what it lacks in power it makes up for in English heritage. The quality of the finish is top notch and oozes class. The Speed Triple will not disappoint as a track tool or a daily commuter. It really is a class act.