 Young people say the fight against drug and substance abuse needs to be intensified for the sake of their future.
They cannot sit and watch because it affects them too. This was said during the recent Fight Against Substance and Illicit Trafficking Summit at Nutting House. Chantel Nxumalo (15) said drug and alcohol abuse is damaging the future of most young people.
“Drugs are dangerous – they literally destroy the brain and how it functions. I have seen my peers failing in class and repeating grades because they use. It is really sad. As future leaders we need to take care of ourselves so that we can achieve what we want in life.”   Chantel is also a member of Teenagers Against Drug Abuse. She joined the group after South African National ALSO READ:Millions of rand’s worth of drugs found under car bonnet Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence (Sanca) visited her community.
“I saw the damage drugs and alcohol are causing in my community. I then decided to make a difference because it is our responsibility to help,” she said.  Neliswa Magagula (15) said young people need to say no to drugs and alcohol. “We are the future and we need to take care of ourselves. Drug and alcohol abuse is very dangerous,” he said. Various stakeholders attended the event and each one had a lot to share about the link between substance abuse and crime. Messiah Hlungwani from correctional services in Barberton was also present. He said they need to be involved so that they can make a difference and help to find a solution.   According Hlungwani, correctional services got involved because most people who abuse alcohol and drugs end up at there. “We all work together regarding this initiative. It starts with the Department of Social Development, which will diagnose the problem and then raise awareness. Afterwards that is when the SAPS come in if that person struggled with detox and ended up committing a crime to buy drugs or alcohol. ALSO READ:Schools must become proactive about drugs “Then the Department of Justice, through the National Prosecuting Authority, will play its role where those convicted will be sent to the correctional service. So we are here because at the end if we do not take part, people end up getting to the correctional service.
“We work with various organisations to assist with rehab, including Sanca, and the Department of Social Development assists when it comes to family support,” he explained.   The MEC for the Department of Social Development, Busisiwe Shiba, said the summit is a response to the regular calls by communities and stakeholders about the scourge of drug abuse in the communities. “It was held so that we can share with you the experiences we encounter in relation to drug abuse and illicit trafficking. “This year’s campaign stresses the theme of ‘Listening to Children and Young People’ as the very first and initial step in helping them grow up safe and healthy, reducing risky behaviour and substance abuse,” Shiba explained. “The purpose of this is to create a clear understanding on the establishment, registration, provision and management of substance abuse community-based services, halfway houses and in-patient treatment facilities. It will also clarify the roles and responsibilities of stakeholders and communities in combating substance abuse and the establishment and registration of services,” said Shiba.