 NAAS – Neatness, respect and expanding your mind were the greatest lessons Capt Beatrice Shabalala learned in her 36 years as a police officer.
The friendly policewoman, who had worked in Komatipoort at the Lebombo Border Post and surrounds since the early 1980s, retired at the end of July. Shabalala explained that she wanted to be a nurse when she matriculated. This ended up not being a possibility and one day, while walking in Barberton where she grew up, she passed the offices of the railway police. On the spur of the moment asked whether she could join them and shortly after she was whisked off for tests and admitted. In March 1982, Shabalala started at Komatipoort’s railway police but was moved to the SAP in 1986. She worked as a clerk of the court and was later appointed support head and SAP13 clerk. When she began her career she was a rose among thorns. She had to prove herself to her male colleagues and ensured she was always at work early and did her job with diligence and pride. ALSO READ: Youth stand against drug abuse After new firearm laws were passed in 2000, she was named designated firearm and liquor officer. This meant that she had to inspect homes and businesses to ensure they conformed to the requirements of the Firearm or Liquor Acts. In September 2000, she found a baby abandoned in the industrial part of town and was later granted permission to foster him. Shabalala explained that he became not only the station’s baby, but the whole community’s. Many people supported her and helped him grow into the grade 11 learner she is so proud of today. She has another son and three grandchildren, whom she adores.She was promoted to captain in 2006 and transferred to Schoemansdal. Here she was the operational commander and later the support head. In September 2013 she was transferred to Lebombo, where she was stationed with human resources management until her retirement.
Shabalala said she learned a lot in the police. “You need to have respect, be neat and clean. I learned how to communicate with the public, to always listen and give them feedback in the right way. It’s important not to make a criminal your friend,” she explained. She learned how to recognise suspects anywhere. “You need to study and open your mind when you are in the police,” she said. Thinking about the most difficult part of her job makes the retired police officer smile. “I decided for myself to do the job, no one forced me. So I chose to make the best of what I was doing. I don’t consider it difficult. If my superiors weren’t satisfied with my work or if I did something wrong, it was a chance for improvement or to learn,” she said. ALSO READ: Only 25 will own a piece of Aston Martin history Shabalala explained that she was not just an officer, but also a mother and had nurtured and disciplined many officers throughout her career. She was known for her friendliness, patience and efficient admin skills. Following her retirement party, where her family and colleagues celebrated her long career, she is still deciding what she would like to do now. She wants to continue to help people and hopes to start a business where she can do so.