 MBOMBELA – The noise pollution in the city is an ongoing and growing concern for locals. Various sources have been identified, the most of which are clubs or pubs in the area. And although a club is permitted to sell alcohol until the time permitted by their liquor licence, they are subject to the conditions of the 2003 Liquor Act. This act states that, “The licensee must take all reasonable steps to ensure that the noise level from the liquor premises is not causing unacceptable disturbance or nuisance to the neighbours or surroundings at all times.” At a Community Policing Forum meeting on August 7, Coyotes Lounge was identified as one of the noise polluters, as well as a source of complaints by other members of the community. Upon investigation Lowvelder found that Coyotes has legitimate liquor licences for both premises in Brander Street and Anderson Street. Capt Ronel Bekker confirmed and said that the licences permit the bar in Brander Street to sell alcohol until 02:00 and the one in Anderson Street until 00:00. However, they must still adhere to the specifications of the above-mentioned act. READ ALSO: Community finding solutions for noise pollution The owner of Coyotes, who would not give the newspaper his name, was phoned for comment. He had the following to say, “It is just white people complaining about the noise. White people’s ears can only listen to white people music, and that is why they are complaining about our black music.” He suggested that the people complaining look to other clubs rather than his, “but you don’t write about them because they are white.” Lowvelder previously reported on the noise pollution issue in the area and that a subcommittee, who aims to tackle this issue, was formed at the same CPF meeting. Cllr Tersia Marshall, who is a member of the committee and has made herself eligible to speak to the public about their complaints, said she received 30 calls just on the Friday the article was published. “I can confirm that we have had our first meeting and that we are busy speaking to senior members of management at the Public Safety Department of the City of Mbombela Local Municipality,” Marshall said. Members of the community who wish to complain about the noise issue can phone Marshall on 082-576-8889 or send her an e-mail at tmarshall33@icloud.com. READ ALSO: Noise by-laws in Mbombela: a travesty