 MBOMBELA – The local annual Charity Tea got a bit of spice and flavour with this year’s oriental theme. The tea was held on Thursday at Emnotweni Arena in aid of Pro- Life, hospice and CANSA. Florence Shandlale and Nolwazi Sedibe. Prominent businesswomen and socialites had the opportunity to dress up in oriental outfits, decorate their tables and support the worthy causes. Lesley Ings, Alex Asman and Bernice Willis. The winner of the best table was Seymore, Du Toit and Basson, however, it was the winner of the best-dressed category who had everyone up in arms. Lizl Burger and Mildri Potgieter. A man, Kellaprince’s Mark Moore, dressed in a traditional Japanese woman’s kimono with matching make-up, stole the trophy from under the noses of all the elegant women present. Winner of the best-dressed award, Mark Moore. According to Lesley Ings from FindIt Production, the organisers of the tea, there were about 250 ladies present whose mere attendance supported the worthy causes. “It is very important for us to give back to our community and this is a fun way to do it,” Ings said. READ ALSO: CANSA’s life is a cabaret The CANSA team: Fazila Chauke, Mantoné van Biljon, Monique van der Westhuizen, Pauline Möller and Mariolise le Roux. Mrs Mpumalanga 2017/18 Mash Mokgatle also attended and left women inspired after her speech. “Females are taking command and are giving back to their communities and we are loving it,” Mokgatle said, adding that they should never stand back for anything. The Pro-Life team: Karin Erasmus, Kirsten Tennant, Leigh-Anne Auerswald, Laura McIntyre and Gaylyn Pienaar. The tea also had a high-stakes auction to benefit the charities, as well as a second-hand clothing sale by Pro-Life, with models from Ramps to Runway showing off the clothes. READ ALSO: Ladies, let’s have tea The hospice team: Tania Mitchell, Elsa Swanepoel, Di Atherton, Andrea Matthews, Wendy Roche, Elmarie du Toit, Meryl Todd, Uno Tarwa, Karen Bullen and Mary Lebotschy. Attendees summed it up as a brilliant morning with beautiful females having great fun for worthy beneficiaries. They are already looking forward to next year. Lihandri Maritz.