 MBOMBELA – It was a swinging day at Ingwenyama Conference & Sport Resort on Saturday at Lowvelder’s Longest Drive Golf Challenge. About 300 people showed up to enjoy the game, as well as spend a day in the sun with family and friends.The challenge was to see who could hit their ball the farthest, within bounds. Many people managed to reach over 300 metres.  According to Sheralyn Janse van Rensburg from Caxton Local Media, there were 110 participants present. “The balls were all brand-new and we had our own set of golf clubs that participants could use,” she said. READ ALSO: Anti-racism march to Nelspruit Golf Club after assault on black golfer (Part 1) Children from the golf-development programme in Malalane were also treated on the day. They also had five balls each to showcase their skills. “I am so impressed with what the children are doing here today. They had a bit of stage fright at first, because they usually do not play in front of people, but they did really well,” said Samuel Lekhulele from Riverside Farm in Malalane, where the children were taught to play.  The mens’ and ladies’ winners each walked away with a Megamaster four-burner gas braai while the male winner received an additional prize: A sponsored four-ball with carts at White River Country Club.  The winners of the six to eight, 12-14 and 15-17 age class all walked away with a Wilson Staff golf club set. The day’s winners:
Men
1. Weber Levendal – 310 metres
2. Scott Knight – 307 metres
3. Koenie Nell – 305 metres
Women
1. Rosemary du Preez – 156 metres
2. Tammy du Preez – 150 metres
3. Marnie Pieterse – 140 metres
Over 60s
1. Gary Vincent – 170 metres
Children
• 6-8 years: Brayden Pietiser – 93 metres
• 12-14 years: Wian Bester – 169 metres
• 15-17 years: Frans Pretorius – 130 metres. READ ALSO: Celebration of the old school VW Golf Mk 1
Lowvelder would like to thank the following sponsors for contributing to the success of the event: RE/MAX, Pro Shop, Talisman White River, Virgin Active Mbombela, Weylandts, MSC, Air Mauritius, Emnotweni Casino, J&M Security, Limpopo Tourism, Ingwenyama Conference & Sports Resort, Imperial Toyota and Lexus, Numbi Ford, Casterbridge Hollow, Everest Van Rentals, Hi-Q, Riverside Mall, White River Country Club, Megamaster, Form Scaff, Ambassador Foods,Wilson Staff, Bridgestone Golf and Nike Golf.  