 MASOYI – What started out as an investigation into a presumably stolen vehicle, led to a potential CIT heist being foiled on Saturday afternoon. One suspect was shot and 19 beat a hasty retreat when Netstar responded to information regarding the stolen vehicle, seen in Masoyi near Hazyview around 16:15. Upon confrontation, a gang of approximately 20 armed suspects opened fire. Netstar returned fire, leaving one of the suspects critically wounded. During the shoot-out, they scattered in different directions and are still at large. According to a spokesman for health, the wounded suspect was taken to Rob Ferreira Hospital and is currently in a stable but critical condition, under police surveillance. The vehicles that were left behind on the scene – a Toyota Quantum, BMW X4 and Land Rover Discovery – were searched and upon investigation, a large quantity of explosives were found. Provincial police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi added that gloves, a bulletproof vest, a firearm, as well as other crime-related items were found on the scene. It was later determined that all the vehicles the suspects left behind were stolen in the Gauteng region,” said Hlathi. “According to a preliminary probe, the suspects were intercepted while on their way to committing a cash-in-transit heist, and thanks to the integrated approach of the White River Flying Squad and Netstar members, the robbery was foiled,” he said. The police are currently in the process of establishing information that may lead to the arrest of those who absconded. “We therefore urge anyone with information to contact Col William Mokonyama of the Hawks in Mpumalanga on 082-565-7099,” concluded Hlathi. The provincial police commissioner, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma, has applauded the collective effort of the stakeholders. It has not yet been determined if this case is related to the spate of CIT heists that has forced the Lowveld to its knees in recent times. It is currently under investigation. Two day after the incident: CIT heist near Hazyview