 MBOMBELA – Make this year’s Mother’s Day memorable with the ever so popular Sappi Mother’s Concert, returning to the Lowveld National Botanical Garden (LNBG) on May 13. This year’s concert will again be hosted in media partnership with Jacaranda FM, and the loyal support of the project partners: J&M Security, Lowveld Link, Minuteman Press and Total Signs. To express its gratitude, Sappi treated the aforementioned to a breakfast of note in the LNBG last week. During the breakfast, which served as a media conference, Sappi spokesman, Elsabe Coetzee announced that Elvis Blue – reckoned to be one of the most successful artists in South Africa – will be the headline act. With an average of 133 live performances a year, three platinum albums and one gold album and a long list of top-10 hits to his credit, Elvis Blue is set to make this year’s concert memorable. The opening act of the Sappi Mother’s Day concert is 20-year-old Refentse Morake, a former busker turned star. He brings an African flavour of sorts to the event. His warm voice, strains of the harmonica, some pop-hooks and the guitar, are just some of the aspects that makes his music wonderful. Gates open at 09:00 and the concert starts at 12:00. Apart from a stunning, soothing setting with music for the soul, a gourmet food market will provide artisan food and drinks to ensure that not only moms, but the entire family has a delicious choice of items to nibble on while enjoying the show. Remember to bring your picnic blanket and/or chairs. In an effort to reduce risks brought about by having cash on site, all ticket sales will be done through Computicket; no tickets will be sold at the gate. Computicket will be open until the start of the concert. Ticket sales will start mid-March. The day’s proceeds will be donated to the Botanical Society, for conservation development projects in the Lowveld National Botanical Garden. Entry is free for pre-schoolers, while primary school learners and pensioners pay R45. All other tickets cost R85. Visitors to the concert will also be able to have a professional family portrait taken on the day – for free – at the Sappi photo booth. Apart from the exciting music line-up, there will be guided garden walks and a full pro-gramme of fun has been organised for the little ones in the kiddies’ entertainment area. For more information visit www.sappimothersday.co.za or email Elsabe.Coetzee@sappi.com. Those who have a physical disability are welcome to apply for an access permit from Rejoice at the Lowveld Botanical Garden on 013-755-1494. Also read: Get Murphy tough for a good cause