 The Press Council of South Africa recently appointed Latiefa Mobara the new executive director following the retirement of Joe Tlholoe after ten years of service. Veteran journalist Joe Latakgomo was appointed public advocate. In this wide ranging question-and-answer interview Latakgomo discusses the role of the Press Council in promoting ethical and moral standards in journalism, and ensuring the media uphold these standards. Q: What does the Press Council do and why is it important? A: The Press Council is an independent co-regulatory mechanism set up by print and online publications affiliated to it to provide impartial, expeditious and cost-effective adjudication to settle disputes over the editorial content of publications. We believe that the media, both print and digital, play a critical role in keeping society informed. The media exists to serve society, and is essential for realising the promise of democracy, and to defend the right to information as provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. The majority of South African print and online publications subscribe to the code. The council is a non-profit company and membership is voluntary. Publications pay a membership fee to support the council’s running costs. Q: How is the Press Council made up? A: The Press Council, which is essentially the board, is chaired by retired Judge Philip Levinsohn, formerly deputy judge president of KwaZulu-Natal. It has six media representatives and six public representatives. Together with the judge, the public representatives ensure that the non-media voice in the council is amplified. An adjudication panel, from which panellists for hearing complaints is selected, is chaired by retired Judge President Bernard Ngoepe. There are six media representatives and eight public representatives, thus ensuring that the non-media representatives on the adjudication panel is larger. The public members as well as the executive director, ombudsman and public advocate, are appointed by a panel led by retired Constitutional Court Justice Yvonne Mokgoro. The vacancies for the public members as well as the staff are published widely, and candidates are short-listed and interviewed to test their commitment to quality journalism, freedom of expression and freedom of the media, and their knowledge of the media industry. Q: How does the Press Council achieve its objective? A: The Press Council of South Africa and the Interactive Advertising Bureau have adopted a code of ethics and conduct, or the Press Code as it is commonly known, which guides journalists in the process of gathering and distributing news. As signatories to the code, media owners, and their editors and journalists have committed themselves to the highest standards to maintain credibility and keep the trust of the public. This means that all media practitioners should always strive for truth. Reporting should always be based on facts, not assumptions. As American statesman John Adams said, facts are stubborn things, and whatever may be our wishes, our inclinations or the dictates of our passions, they cannot alter the state of facts and evidence.  Q: How does the Press Code work? A: The Press Code is a set of guidelines that helps journalists to in their daily practice of gathering and distributing news and opinion and it also guides the ombudsman, Mr Johan Retief, and the appeals panel headed by Judge Bernard Ngoepe, to reach decisions on complaints from members of the public Q: What does the code say and what is required from the media? A: The code requires the media to take care to report news truthfully, accurately, and fairly, and to present news in a balanced manner without intentional or negligent departure from the truth. It is upon this principle that all else stands. There are also provisions on privacy, dignity and reputation, protection of personal information, discrimination and hate speech, advocacy and the depiction of violence and graphic content. Journalists are encouraged to be familiar with the code, and members of the public can access the code on our website, www.presscouncil.org.za Q: How the media obtains news is often questioned by the public. How should the media conduct itself in this regard? A: Firstly, media representatives must identify themselves as such, unless there is a compelling reason not to do so – for example safety, or the broader public interest. The media should also seek the views of the subject of critical reportage in advance of publication and should give these subjects a reasonable time for a response. Media reports should be balanced and accurate. Q: What is “reasonable time”? A: This is best illustrated by example: If a journalist asks a subject whether he or she is married, reasonable time for a response could be seconds. But if detailed information is sought about corrupt activities, it may require days for the subject to gather complex information.  Q: What about conflict of interest? A: The media shall not accept a bribe, gift or any other benefit where this is intended or is likely to influence coverage. The media shall indicate clearly where an outside organisation has contributed to the cost of news gathering. Q: Journalists often use anonymous sources to hang a story on. Is this acceptable? A: The media must avoid using anonymous sources and use them only if there is no other way to deal with the story. Care should, however, be taken to corroborate the information. Q: What is the complaints process? A: If a member of the public believes that a publication, print or online, has not lived up to the code, he or she can lodge a complaint online or via email or fax within 20 days of the publication of the relevant article. The public advocate is appointed specifically to assist members of the public to formulate their complaints, and will attempt to resolve their complaints amicably by liasing directly with the publication on behalf of the complainant. Complaints can also be emailed to our case officer, Khanyi Mndaweni on khanyim@ombudsman.org.za or by calling the public advocate on 011-484-3612. Caxton Local Media, of which Lowvelder is a division,  subscribes to the Code of Ethics and Conduct for South African Print and Online Media that prescribes news that is truthful, accurate, fair and balanced. If we don’t live up to the Code, within 20 days of the date of publication of the material, please contact the Press Ombud at 011 484 3612 or website: www.presscouncil.org.za.