 SATARA – Yet another visitor to the Kruger National Park (KNP) was caught in the act of illegally flying a drone last week.
This, barely a month after a man’s decision to disobey the rules cost him dearly when he was banned from the KNP for life for operating a drone. Life ban for drone-flying visitor in the KNP There is, however, a difference; the latest perpetrator might escape with a slap on the wrist.
Andrew Pickles, a regular visitor to the park, came across the visitor at a lion sighting between Letaba and Satara camps last Wednesday.
“I couldn’t believe my eyes when I saw the man open his car door. What’s more, he gets out of his vehicle, puts his drone on the floor and sends it up in the air to get a closer look at the lion,” said Pickles.
He took a photo and a video, and reported the incident to the nearest camp, Satara, and added the photo on social media. He had in the meanwhile fell victim to victimisation and had to remove the footage.
Pickles was hoping that the proof would lead to immediate punishment. “They, however, told me that their telephone lines were down and they couldn’t get a hold of any rangers,” he said.
A few days after the incident, he followed up with the camp, after which they told him that the perpetrator had been given a fine. Yet, upon enquiry, William Mabasa, the KNP’s general manager for community and marketing, did not know anything about it. Lowvelder supplied Mabasa with the video footage on Wednesday, after which he instructed officials to track the offender down and give the necessary fine.
Mabasa had by the time of going to press, not responded to questions surrounding the difference in punishment, compared to the life ban of the previous offender. Whether a fine was indeed given, is not yet known at this stage.
“The flying of drones is highly illegal in national parks. Flying such aircraft, getting out of vehicles on undesignated areas, interfering in sightings, and disturbing and stalking animals are illegal within the park and will bear consequences. We would like to inform wrongdoers and other drone users that, should they be found flying them in the park at any time, they will be arrested on the spot and their equipment will be seized,” Ike Phaahla, a media specialist, previously told Lowvelder.  