 WHITE RIVER – A Pakistani national and a male passenger were shot and killed in their vehicle in what is alleged to be a robbery. J&M Security operations manager Shaun Terblanche said they received a call at about 20:00 from a member of the public who said there was a woman lying in the middle of the road covered in blood. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Accused in Liesl Nel’s murder makes first court appearance “When I arrived at the scene, I saw a KIA bakkie LDV, with a courier canopy, just off the road but half way into the bush. ER24 stopped behind me. The police were already on the scene.” He saw the woman, who was not injured, being treated by paramedics for shock. She had been a passenger seated between the two men. “When I went to the bakkie, I saw the bodies of the Pakistani national in the driver’s seat and a male passenger.”   “After interviewing the woman, I found out that they had been followed from Hazyview. Two vehicles, a white Polo and a Ford Bantam, were following them flashing their lights. At one point one of them overtook them and vanished from sight.” The other vehicle was still following them. When they turned onto the old Plaston Road (R538), around a corner the verhicle, that had earlier vanished from sight, was parked on the left hand side of the road. “One male stood in the middle of the road and another stood next to the road with fireams. They opened fire on the bakkie, shooting the driver and passenger and the tyres.” ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Life sentences for murderers of three-year-old girl The driver was hit in the chest and the passenger was shot through the left window. The bakkie went off the road and into the bush. “The woman said the suspects went up to the bakkie and shot the Pakistani national in the head. They demanded money and she gave them R30 000 cash.  The men then fled in the direction of Plaston.” ER24 paramedic Kim Habib said they had responded to the scene. “We treated a woman for shock and there were two males declared dead on the scene.”