 MATSULU –  Joseph Mashaba (34) from Matsulu and several other “Lowveld Walkers” trekked 23 kilometres from Naas to the KaMhlushwa Spoor gate early on the morning of March 10. Matshaba started the initiative in mid-January because he wanted to lose weight and was soon joined by others also wanting to slim down and get fit. Besides the health benefits and having others to encourage you to keep moving, the walks also promote a healthy lifestyle and create awareness of obesity and fitness among the communities they pass through. The Lowveld Walkers meet once a week (early on a Saturday or Sunday) and complete various distances between towns and landmarks.  Their first walk was from Lekazi to Matsulu, then Malalane to Matsulu, Louw’s Creek to Matsulu and White River to Mbombela. On March 3 they took on the long road between Mbombela and Matsulu. The group was supported by Mzilikazi Supermarket & Garage, which sponsored transport and fuel, Food Lover’s Market Mbombela, which gave fruit, and Sembcorp Silulumanzi which donated beverages to keep them hydrated.  Also read: Kruger park’s iconic features are highlighted During these walks, the group is accompanied by traffic officials who ensure their safety. Saturday was no different as Nkomazi Traffic officers escorted them safely to their destination. Elderly people are encouraged to join the walk to stay fit and prevent health problems. MD Mashabane (60) of Matsulu said Saturday’s walk in Naas was his first  long-distance event. “I normally walk in Matsulu and exercise every day. My advice for other old people is that they must exercise to prevent diseases, especially leg and knee problems.” Many people joined this walk, some from Nkomazi, like Nontobeko Zitha, Lindokuhle Sedibe and Mandla Lubisi, Moses Mbazima from Mangweni and Jacob Sandlane from Tonga. Participants also included former PSL Dynamos captain, Brain Mkhabela (40).  “I saw an opportunity to be part of this walk since living a healthy lifestyle has been a part of me when I was still playing soccer in my early 20s. I encourage everyone out there to join the walks – you are going to benefit a lot physically,” he said. Their schedule for the next month:
March 24: Lekazi/Tekwane/Karino to Emoyeni Mall
April 1: Mbombela/Hilltop to Barberton
April 7: Mjejane to Malalane
April 15: Nelsville to Karino
April 21: Sheba to Louw’s Creek
April 29: White River to Hazyview. To join the group or for enquiries, contact Mashaba on 076-444-2343 or joseph.mashaba@gmail.com.  Also read: Runners brave a challenging trail