 MBOMBELA – The National Lotteries Commission (NLC) will soon meet with the NSPCA to iron out the issues surrounding the lost funding, which left the association in the lurch. The NLC responded to the issue, and said the NSPCA was not an exception. Many other charity organisations were affected. “This, however, does not mean that they cannot apply for funding in the future, or they will not be covered in the future priority areas when they are reviewed. We also continually urge our beneficiaries to generate income from other sources, as funding is not guaranteed,” the NLC recently said in a statement, following the announcement of the withdrawal. It further stated that NLC regulates the lottery industry in South Africa, and that it generates proceeds to maintain operations, as well to distribute funds to worthy causes through this regulation. “On average, the NLC distributes R1,5 billion each year, and the charities sector accounts for almost R700 million of these allocations, which is 47 per cent of the total budget. Each year more than 14 000 applications are received in this sector, requesting more than R10 billion in funding.” The commission funding cannot address every organisation’s needs, which was the reason why the board resolved to focusing on priority areas on a yearly basis. It further expressed its disappointment in the manner in which the NSPCA handled this matter. “Unfortunately, it opted to resolve this matter through the media instead of exploring our internal process. “The NLC has an internal mechanism of dealing with disputes, and one of them is for the declined organisation to make application for review to an independent review committee,” it concluded. The date for the meeting has not yet been confirmed. Petworx in i’langa Mall, have, in the meanwhile, decided to donate a percentage of their turnover for February to the SPCA and Prolife. Their suppliers have been asked to match their initiative, resulting in roughly R40 000 worth of pet food being donated. Also read: DBV gaan dalk harde bene kou Kankervegter stap pad saam met ander