 MBOMBELA – A decreasing trend of the local dam levels was turned into an increase thanks to four days of heavy rainfall across the Lowveld last week. During this period local residents recorded on average between 40 and 60 millimetres of rain in total in the Lowveld region. The Department of Water and Sanitation’s weekly state of reservoirs report on March 26 showed that the water levels in the dams and water management areas of Mpumalanga had increased. Also read: Crocodiles hinder search for body According to the report, the average level of dams in the Lowveld increased by about three per cent. The dam levels are, however, still less than last year’s average of 88,26 per cent at the same time. This is based on six of the major dams in the Lowveld area – Da Gama, Inyaka, Kwena, Nooitgedacht, Vygeboom and Witklip. “The decline in water levels and the fact that the average is less than what was recorded at the same time last year is a cause for concern as we head towards the dry winter season,” said the department’s Sputnik Ratau. Also read: Increase in accidents reported in wet weather conditions Though Witklip Dam is currently on 96 per cent, which is 2,3 per cent higher than last week, its level is still four per cent lower than the same period last year. Vygeboom Dam is more than a 100 per cent full, and compared with last year, remains unchanged. Nooitgedacht showed the largest increase of the above-mentioned dams. It currently sits at 96 per cent compared with last week’s 89,2 per cent. This is one of three of the above-mentioned dams, with a higher level than last year’s 88,3 per cent. Kwena is currently on 67,4 per cent, which is 0,3 per cent higher than last year’s level and a 2,4 per cent higher than last week. Inyaka is around 12 per cent lower than last year’s 89,5, and currently sits on 77,4 per cent – around two per cent higher than last week. Da Gama Dam is 1,5 per cent higher than last year and rose 2,7 per cent in the last week. “As we approach the dry winter season, it is crucial that we all work together to conserve the little water that is available to ensure that each and everyone has access to the source of life. We hold the key to water security in our dry and water-scarce country,” Ratau concluded. 