 HAZYVIEW – Local police divers had to endure crocodile-infested waters for five days in search of a 23-year-old man who drowned on Wednesday. Nduduzi Mukhuse and another person were praying next to the river when Mukhuse entered the water for no apparent reason and got swept away. “He cried for help, but I had to watch helplessly as he was swept away and there was nothing I could do,” the eyewitness, whose identity is not known to Lowvelder, told the police. Capt Pottie Potgieter keeps a close eye on the crocodile’s movements. He apparently instructed his friend to grab onto the vegetation adjacent to the river, but the the current was just too strong and he disappeared beneath the surface. Shortly after the incident the diving unit was called to the scene near Calcutta where the R536 crosses the river. Capt Joey and Capt Pottie Potgieter, Const Arno Swart and WO Andre de Lange launched a full-scale search. For five days, the team faced various challenges in search of Mukhuse’s body. Not only did the recent rain and rising water levels hinder their mission, but crocodiles lying in wait on the banks of the river were a constant threat. Const Arno Swart and Capt Joey Potgieter. On day one, Pottie entered the infested water and scoured the immediate location that was provided, but after an hour-long search had not found the body. For the next four days the team searched the river on kayaks each and every day, but to no avail. The search came to an end on Sunday when the decomposed body of the 23-year-old was found about a kilometre downstream from where he was swept away. Upon investigation, bite marks on Mukhuse suggest that after he drowned, he ended up in the jaws of one of the crocodiles. He was found on an island in the river, to which the crocodile had possibly dragged his body. Potgieter explained that this was one of four incidents that recently occurred in the area, but only two bodies were recovered. Also read: Officer survives near-fatal gunshot A legend in the courts has passed away