 TONGA – Four people were murdered in one week in three separate incidents in Nkomazi. Nyuwane Khoza was allegedly beaten to death by his girlfriend, Sarah Ngwenya (43), and her daughter, Phindile (20), at Block C Phakama on February 27. According to their neighbours, Khoza and Sarah had a complicated relationship and lived separately. They had a child together. Khoza reportedly found out that Sarah was dating someone else and went to her house to confront her and get his belongings back. He found her with her new boyfriend and she refused to give anything back. Khoza allegedly got angry and slashed the JoJo tank he had bought, prompting Sarah and Phindile to assault him with a hosepipe and a stone. He was severely injured and reportedly left for dead outside the home. A neighbour saw Khoza’s body being moved, followed Sarah and saw her dump it in a bush near the Naas graveyard. The matter was reported to Tonga SAPS and the women were arrested on March 1. They appeared in the Tonga Magistrate’s Court last Friday and were released on a warning. They are scheduled to appear in the same court on April 9 on murder charges. The community was shocked and furious about the incident. Jacob Mtetua, an ANC community councillor, said residents would arrange a meeting and also take care of Sarah’s two young children. On March 3 two men were shot in the head in Mgobodzi after refusing to cooperate with armed suspects. According to Capt Magonseni Nkozi of Tonga SAPS, armed men pretending to be police officers approached the house of the Mgobodzi headman. When they were denied entry to the house, they headed to the back of the property where the two victims rented rooms. The victims were allegedly told to convince the main house’s occupants to let the suspects in but refused to do so. They were shot in the head. The suspects fled the scene with the victims’ cellphones, which were later recovered along the main road to Sibange. A murder case was opened at Tonga SAPS. Anyone with information who can assist with the investigation, can contact Col Alex Mahlahlani on 082-318-9865 or the SAPS crime-stop number 086-001-0111. On March 4 around 04:30, police responded to a call that a man had been murdered in Langeloop. They found the body of a 29-year-old man and a case of murder was opened. Two men were later connected to the case and arrested. According to KaMhlushwa station commander, Capt Mzwandile Nyambi, police suspect the three were fighting and said the victim died of multiple injuries. The two suspects appeared in the Nkomazi Magistrate’s Court on March 5 and are still in custody. Nyambi urged the community not to resort to violence during arguments, but to talk it out instead.