 WHITE RIVER – “You turn off our electricity if we do not pay our accounts. It is time we turn off our payments if you do not supply clean water to us,” the resident told the municipal representatives at a meeting held last week. The meeting was convened by ward councillor, Trudie Grové Morgan. The City of Mbombela Local Municipality was represented by the deputy municipal manager Patrick Msibi, general manager of water and sanitation Linda Zulu, and MMC for water and sanitation Sipho Siwela. The town was without water for at least 12 hours last week and, after heavy rain during the week, taps discharged almost unusable brownish liquid. Siwela and Msibi apologised profusely to residents for the bad service, but the latter were all but pacified. One after the other they continued with accusations of incompetence and dragging feet when it comes to fixing the water problems experienced in town. Most of these issues surfaced as far back as 2001. Similar meetings were held at regular intervals, the last about two years ago. Other complaints included meters that malfunction or do not function at all, insufficient water pressure in large areas of the town, faulty meter readings and unreliable accounting.  The fact that water from Longmere Dam still flows via a canal rather than a pipeline to the purification works in town was also questioned. The municipality was accused of having no proper and updated maintenance plan for the White River plant, and the question was raised whether Silulumanzi could not also manage the local water works. In return Zulu assured the residents that the local plant was in perfect working order, but admitted that last week’s issues were due to human error by the operator. Regarding management by Silulumanzi, she said it will be discussed and considered. The canal is managed by the White River Irrigation Board, and so the municipality has no jurisdiction over it. Upgrading of the current plant is continually hampered by budget constraints. He promised to take up the staff issues with the municipal manager, and assured residents that they are committed to resolving these issues. Residents were not impressed by any of the answers, and felt that most of the plans and resolutions mentioned should have been implemented many years ago.  A member of the local ratepayers’ association also pointed out that they offered assistance to council on several occasions. According to them, a number of highly qualified individuals is willing to assist with their expertise, but up to now this was dismissed or ignored by council. Grové Morgan concluded the meeting with the suggestion that the ratepayers’ association and municipal representatives should meet again at the earliest convenience to discuss the offer of assistance from said experts, to which both parties agreed. The meeting was scheduled for today.