 MBOMBELA – The three-yearly election of public schools’ school governing bodies (SGB) gets under way this month. Parents and guardians of child in a school are eligible to serve on the board, the subcommittees or, most importantly, to vote. Paul Colditz, CEO of the federation of governing bodies, says people often confuse public schools with government schools, which they are not. “An integral part of the public education system is that the primary responsibility lies with the parents who need to be directly involved,” he says. “The law recognises parents’ crucial role in schools.” The school principal, teachers and other personnel (and in high schools also pupils) serve on the board, but there must be one parent more than anyone else represented. ALSO READ: Proposed education legislation amounts to ‘school capture’, says FEDSAS The SGB determines everything that takes place outside the classroom: how money is spent; which sports and cultural activities are offered at a school and how they are funded; how the facilities, from school desks to the terrain, are maintained; as well as their language and admission policies. Colditz adds that many parents don’t take it seriously enough. “Too many think things will work out by themselves.” Even if your child is about to leave school, a parent still has a say – on behalf of their community and possibly their own grandchildren. “The school is a big asset in a community. When people are presented with the opportunity to move here, for instance, they ask whether there is a good school.” ALSO READ: Interhigh spirit competition gets disqualified He cites an example where a sufficient number of parents (15 per cent are required to achieve a quorum) did not show up to vote the first time. The same happened the second time, and so only three people ended up electing the entire SGB. “A small grouping hijacked the school’s religious orientation. Hundreds of parents were very upset, but it was their own fault.” People with a professional background such as lawyers, accountants, and people who understand transparent governance are always needed to serve. Key, however, are leadership qualities and wisdom. He adds that it takes time to serve on the SGB, but that the rewards are priceless. “Making a difference in the lives of others, and especially children, is something money can’t buy. “The future of the school rests on how parents vote to a far greater extent than they realise,” he concludes. ALSO SEE: Schooling can cost an arm and a leg Laerskool Bergland: March 5 Laerskool Laeveld: March 5 Hoërskool Bergvlam: March 6 Laerskool Nelspruit: March 7 Hoërskool Nelspruit: March 12 Laerskool Witrivier: March 13 Lowveld High School: March 14