 MBOMBELA – With four months left of the current municipal financial year, the City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) faces dire financial woes. At the tabling of the 2017/18 adjustment budget in council on February 27, it was revealed that the overall CMLM budget had been increased by R115 million. This however does not mean that the municipality will be able to deliver on its primary mandate, service delivery. “Although the budget has been adjusted upwards, cuts to grants from treasury as well as internally funded projects might influence the CMLM’s ability to deliver basic services to residents,” said chief whip of the DA caucus, Sanley van der Merwe. Also read: Three arrested after security officer gunned down in cold blood One of the biggest concerns raised by the opposition at the meeting was the R26 million the CMLM will have to foot as back pay to general workers of the former Umjindi Local Municipality and Mbombela Local Municipality. “Before the amalgamation the general workers of the two municipalities were employed on different pay grades. ” “Since the two local municipalities became the CMLM, there have been continued disputes over wages and as such an adjustment and the payment of back pay was tabled in council,” said Van der Merwe. She added that in addition to the money owed to the workers as back pay, the CMLM stands to spend R1,4 million more on salaries for the remainder of the financial year. “How will the CMLM shoulder this added burden?” asked Van der Merwe in council. Also read: SARS, SARS, SARS… Executive mayor, Cllr Sibusiso Mathonsi responded, saying that money which was raised through cost-curtailment strategies that have been in place since the start of the 2017/18 financial year and will be used to fund both the monthly salary increase as well as the R26 million. “The current accumulated surplus will allow for the payment of these expenses, as the budget was adjusted to cater for these expenses and we are confident that we have enough money to sustain these expenses till the end of 2018,” said Mathonsi. “Our concern as the opposition is that we cannot discern how this further strain on the municipal budget will play out, as the grant of R13 million which was given to the CMLM to effect the amalgamation cannot be accounted for,” said Van der Merwe. Mathonsi responded saying that although the amalgamation grant had been exhausted, processes are underway to investigate how the money was spent. Also read: Two-time vehicle thief gets nabbed in Rocky Drift pub “A comprehensive report will be made to council once the process has been concluded, but until such time revenue and accumulated surplus will provide the needed funds,” he said, adding that R100 million had been generated through cost-curtailment strategies. “Financially the CMLM has made a significant improvement in our position, but we are not yet at the point where we can back all our projects as we don’t have all the money in the bank that we need, but we are moving in the right direction. “Being able to honour our monthly commitments such as the Eskom account is proof that we have drastically improved our situation, but a lot still needs to be done,” Mathonsi concluded.