 MBOMBELA – Trucks have been losing their loads and overturning at the traffic roundabouts on the stretch of the R37 outside town leading to Lydenburg since its construction in 2010. Experts attribute it to the small size of the roundabouts, and speeding. Yet, despite these ongoing incidents and accidents, the City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) and the Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport (DPWRT) are in dispute over the ownership of the road and roundabouts. DA Cllr Steven Schormann said one of the main reasons for the accidents relates to poor workmanship and a lack of maintenance. Also read: BREAKING NEWS: Weather warning issued for Mbombela  The stretch of road, classified as the P166, was originally constructed to accommodate the increased traffic flow anticipated during the 2010 Fifa Soccer World Cup, but has since become the bane of truck drivers and CMLM. According to municipal spokesman Joseph Ngala, the road and maintenance thereof, fall under the jurisdiction of DPWRT. “The provincial department seems only too happy to pass the buck, but there is no question about the fact that CMLM has no jurisdiction over that particular stretch of road and therefore it is not the municipality’s responsibility to maintain it,” he said adding that he is aware of a dispute over the ownership of the road between TRAC and DPWRT. TRAC communications manager, Solange Soares-Nicholson, however, said TRAC has no jurisdiction over the stretch of road. Also read: Tourists warned to remain alert for their own safety  According to an expert source, who requested to remain anonymous for professional reasons, the main reason for trucks losing their load or overturning at the roundabouts is that of speed. “It’s a similar situation to what happens at the traffic roundabout in White River on the road coming from Hazyview.
Trucks travel at high speeds and then are unable to reduce their speed when approaching the roundabouts which are uncomfortably small and can’t necessarily accommodate large vehicles travelling at high speeds,” the source said. He suggested that traffic calming and adequate signage warning motorists and truck drivers of the roundabouts might deter the latter from taking the roundabouts at speed. Also read: Premier Refilwe Mtsweni reshuffles cabinet Schormann added that in his experience, the main concern remains the high speed and lack of adequate lighting and signage on that part of the road. Despite numerous requests for information and comment from DPWRT, at the time of going to press the department was not available to comment.