 MBOMBELA – Lowvelder reported on reckless driving by a City to City bus and a Coca-Cola truck last week. Both drivers were passing vehicles illegally, to the great dismay of road users. “The driver of that bus has been suspended and is going through our disciplinary process. This is a serious matter and appropriate action will be taken against any one who is found to be violating the laws of the country and our own policies,” said Nozipho Jafta, spokesman for City to City. The latest incident happened on Sunday, where another bus was caught on camera passing a tanker truck on a solid line. This happened on the R40 from Hazyview to White River at the Swartfontein turn. “This matter was brought to the attention of the operations management team and the executive team of the company. We have started with the investigation and have commissioned our tracking company for additional information and the identification of the bus and the driver,” Jafta said.   Another incident happened on Suturday Another allegation was made on Saturday. A bus was caught speeding on the wrong side of the road on the R40 between White River and Hazyview. Frank Faurie, who made the post, said he was lucky because he saw the bus from a distance and got out of its way.
City to City has acknowledged the incident, but has not yet confirmed if it has launched an investigation to track down the culprit.   Coca-Cola spokesman Lindiwe Zikalala said an internal investigation is under way in response to the reckless driving of their heavy vehicle. “We assure you that the necessary action will be taken once investigations have concluded.” Lowvelder reported on reckless driving by a City to City bus and a Coca-Cola truck last week. Both drivers were passing vehicles illegally, to the great dismay of road users.   Also read: #Straatvark   “The driver of that bus has been suspended and is going through our disciplinary process. This is a serious matter and appropriate action will be taken against any one who is found to be violating the laws of the country and our own policies,” said Nozipho Jafta, spokesman for City to City. The latest incident happened on Sunday, where another bus was caught on camera passing a tanker truck on a solid line. This happened on the R40 from Hazyview to White River at the Swartfontein turn. “This matter was brought to the attention of the operations management team and the executive team of the company. We have started with the investigation and have commissioned our tracking company for additional information and the identification of the bus and the driver,” Jafta said. Another allegation was made on Saturday. A bus was caught speeding on the wrong side of the road on the R40 between White River and Hazyview. City to City has acknowledged the incident, but has not yet confirmed if it has launched an investigation to track down the culprit. Coca-Cola spokesman Lindiwe Zikalala said an internal investigation is under way in response to the reckless driving of their heavy vehicle. “We assure you that the necessary action will be taken once investigations have concluded.”   Also read: Reckless heavy-vehicle drivers face the heat