 MBOMBELA – The 17-year-old grade 10 pupil who allegedly assaulted a teacher at Hoërskool Bergvlam on Monday, saw his mother being killed just over six weeks ago. His 43-year-old mom was run over by a bakkie on the R40 on January 23. An eyewitness on the scene said it had been a horrific sight, as she had been flung into the air. The witness also stated that they could not imagine what trauma her children experienced, seeing what had happened to their mother. Lowvelder reported on Tuesday that teacher Richard Prinsloo was allegedly attacked in his classroom by the pupil. Other children had to pull the alleged attacker off Prinsloo. His glasses were broken and his eye, elbow, ribs and knee were injured during the assault. After the incident Prinsloo opened a case of assault against the pupil. Police spokesman Lt Col Erhard Stroh said the learner appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. ALSO READ : BREAKING NEWS: Twenty suspects open fire and kill security officer in cold blood The minor and Prinsloo have since been suspended by the school. Prinsloo’s suspension was, however, due to a grievance lodged by six parents who complained about his alleged verbal abuse and his conduct towards pupils. “The investigations started on Monday, the day on which the said learner assaulted the educator in question,” said Department of Education spokesman Gerald Sambo. “Prinsloo was served with a letter of intention to suspend him on Tuesday. This was to allow him to provide representation as to why he should not be suspended, pending the finalisation of the investigations on the allegations levelled against him by the six parents.” Bergvlam’s governing body chairman, Ferdi Bijzet, told Lowvelder on Thursday that Prinsloo’s suspension was not related to the assault case. “We have video footage of the assault which will be used for the disciplinary process which is to take place. We cannot comment more on the situation as it is ongoing. Once the outcome is made, the school will send out a media release regarding this. People must remember this is an isolated incident and the school has never experienced a situation like this before.” Sambo stated that the only person who had the right to expel a learner from a school was the department’s head. “The disciplinary processes concerning pupils are handled by the school, specifically the school governing body as specified by the South African Schools Act. But after that, they have to send a recommendation of their findings to the head of the department who makes the final decision.” Prinsloo declined to comment. The pupil’s family also declined to speak to Lowvelder. According to Stroh, the minor’s court case was postponed until March 14 for a probation report.