 HOEDSPRUIT – There is no margin for error when someone’s life is at stake. One small mistake could cost the life of the person in need, as well as the rescuers. Thus, rescue-training exercises are crucial. Air Force pilot Maj Pieter Rabie trains the rescue members. Over the past weekend, a joint aeronautical search-and-rescue training exercise was conducted at Air Force Base Hoedspruit. The exercise was arranged by the SANDF Mpumalanga Joint Tactical Headquarters, Mpumalanga Provincial Disaster Management Centre (PDMC) and the base. Staff officer class one air operations, Lt Col Robert Strydom said one of his main objectives was to conduct formal training with those involved in rescue operations at least once a year. “It is a matter of life and death that everyone is trained on exactly what to do. Nothing can go wrong when there is a rescue to be performed. One small mistake can cost a life.” Lowveld ORRU chairman Pieter du Plessis and Dewald Jonker. Seventeen members from Lowveld Off Road Rescue Unit (Orru), Bossies Community Justice (BCJ), SAPS K9 Search and Rescue Unit and members of 19 Squadron participated in the exercise. Lowveld Orru’s chairman Pieter du Plessis said the team set off on Thursday afternoon. “We camped outside in tents. This was a great opportunity to test our 48-hour packs which consisted of food, shelter and clean clothing. We could then pick up any shortcomings the packs might have.” The next morning they met up with the 19 Squadron members. The pilots briefed them regarding the Agusta 109 choppers. “We learned about the choppers capabilities,” Du Plessis said. Then the real hard work began – the practical. “We were divided into three groups. The choppers rose above the ground to about 30 feet, we were hoisted down two at a time with ropes. Everybody took turns.” Rescue team members land at Air Force Base Hoedspruit. Two other groups went up with the Oryx, a larger helicopter than Agusta. “The teams were dropped off in the bush. Later the Oryx went to hoist them up. This was all done in the pouring rain. If they did not have the proper clothing on, they were soaked wet,” Du Plessis stated. That night the team set up their tents in the outdoors yet again. “I had made a hammock against some trees, to my surprise I found a marble tree snake on the tree and one under my hammock. They are aggressive but not venomous to humans.” That second night the rain poured and the following morning they were up at the crack of dawn for more training. “We tested our GPS navigational systems. The area has no maps so the terrain was perfect to test it in.” They split into two groups consisting of four teams each. “The first team was sent out to drive around and stop at a spot in the bush. They would radio the next team coordinates which would be sent to find them,” Du Plessis said. Rescue team members train on top of Mariepskop. The SAPS K9 Unit’s turn had a twist, when they got to the GPS coordinates. They found the vehicle with a shirt and a note under the wiper blade: “Well done, you passed the first test, now find us with your dogs.” The K9s picked up the scent and found the other team members hiding in the bush. Next, the rescue exercise took them to Mariepskop. “We drove there by convoy right to the top of the mountain.” They identified a ledge on the cliff and proceeded to practise lowering rescue workers with ropes. After a hard day’s work, the team retired once again to the camp area where they swam and washed themselves in a concrete dam as there were no shower facilities. “We swam while the hyenas laughed at us,” Du Plessis quipped. The team headed home the next morning.  