 MBOMBELA – On Wednesday evening community members gathered at the school. They  thanked sponsors and partners for helping it grow, especially after the storm damaged its facilities last year. Andri Bester, managing director, thanked all the parties involved. “I am so happy for everyone who donated time, money and skills to help our school and who stood with us through everything.” Liezel du Plessis, a parent at the school, also gave thanks to all contributors. “My children already have special needs and I do not want to make it any harder for them. I want them to have a beautiful school and thanks to everybody involved I am now able to send them here with peace in my heart”. Partners of the school spoke about what they have done.
Jacques Esterhuizen, owner of Citybug, spoke about the Murph Challenge that will be held on April 21. All proceeds will go to Pro Gratia to restore two classrooms as well as build a new art centre for the children. “Citybug is going to carry all the expenses for the event, including the prize money. All the proceeds and money from the sponsors will go to Pro Gratia,” Esterhuizen said. The challenge, for individuals and teams, will take place at Hoërskool Bergvlam on April 21. The Murph Challenge first originated in the USA, in honour of Lt Michael P Murphy. It consists of a 1,6-kilometre run, 100 pull-ups, 200 push-ups, 300 squats and a second 1,6 kilometre run – all while participants wear either a weighted vest or body armour.
They hope to raise R150 000.  Also read: Get Murphy tough for a good cause “I am a very giving person and I love to share what I have with those who have none. It is a privilege to share it with this school,” Esterhuizen said and challenged all businesses to partake in the event by either competing or sponsoring a lane. Spectators on the day can also look forward to food stalls, a beer tent, children’s entertainment, as well as the different acts on the field. Esterhuizen and his son-in-law Marthinus de Bruin, lived out Pro Gratia’s taking hands theme by partnering with Jan Strydrom and Carien Craig from Canary Walk to bring even more money to the school. “We are building a puzzle where people can buy a square at R50, to raise funds for a new playing field.”  Also read: How you can help Pro Gratia get back on their feet after storm disaster