 BARBERTON – The Low’s Creek community’s frustration with police’s perceived inaction in the murder of Luke von Johnston and John Ntimane took on new meaning this week when the EFF caused a stir about it on Facebook. The men were shot dead on Von Johnston’s farm in Low’s Creek on October 24. Von Johnston’s neighbour, Mark Norris, was briefly detained following the shootings. Nobody has been charged with the murders. The EFF’s provincial leader, Collen Sedibe, said he came to hear about the case from Astrid Christianson, a well-known Barbertonian and local tourism marketer, last week. He posted a photo of them together, along with an entry, on the Facebook group EFF Malema last week. It caused an uproar. Astrid Christianson with Collen Sedibe. Sedibe wrote that “this woman… approached us… and narrated a painful story.” The content is primarily centred on the Von Johnston and Ntimane case. “We will make sure that Mark Norris is arrested and his farm is the first to be expropriated without compensation in Mpumalanga. Let us just finish with the Human Rights Day Rally. We are coming for him,” he wrote. ALSO SEE: Luke von Johnston murder investigation completed A fierce debate erupted on social media, with townsfolk and social-media contacts accusing Christianson of spreading hate speech that could put farms, farmers and farm workers in danger. She has since entered in consultation with a local lawyer, Jaice Terblanche, to find protection against, according to her, the untruthful posts by the EFF which have since followed. Christianson said she was not aware who the man in a red shirt was when she recently struck up a conversation with him at a garage in town. Christianson has been quite vocal about the well-publicised murders, as well the fact that the case has not been solved yet. She told local reporter Anchen Coetzee, who followed the incident as it developed on Facebook, that she strongly denied that there was any truth in the statement or that she had any connection to the party – or any political party for that matter. WATCH: EFF intimidates Lowvelder reporters at court “We had a conversation about crime in general, the lack of basic education and about Luke and John. “What I did say, however, was that I could not understand why it was taking so long for justice to run its course! Both Luke and John were dear friends of mine for many, many years,” she said. Sedibe pointed out that people might have misconstrued his statement to attribute his own comments to Christianson. They, however, agree on one thing: “The community wants justice to be done,” Sedibe told Lowvelder. “The police are not doing their work. Now I’m waiting for the police’s response about the case. We want justice for Luke and John.” Terblanche said they have entered into consultation and insist on a formal apology from the party. Police spokesman, Sgt Gerald Sedibe said they were still busy with the investigation into the shootings. READ MORE: Laerskool Nelspruit closed as EFF protest fails to materialize READ THE ORIGINAL: Reckless rumour about to turn EFF’s faces as red as their T-shirts