 MBOMBELA – A bumper weekend, with festivities from start to end, awaits Lowvelders and visitors from May 11 to 13. This will be followed by the Kishugu Lowveld Air Show on Saturday while the Sappi Mother’s Day Concert in the Lowveld Botanical Garden will bring the weekend to an exciting end on Sunday May 13. At Minibos, where the official programme of the arts festival with the theme “This is how we roll” to be held from June 27 to 30 will be announced, musicians Bok van Blerk and Touch of Class will set the pace and warm up the crowd. Also read: Keep your home and possessions safe this Easter weekend  Bring a picnic basket with enough tjoppies, as there will also be braai fires blazing. Companies are invited to book a braai space beforehand at the Innibos office by phoning 013-741-5294. “As usual there will be several surprises to entice the festivalgoers. The printed Innibos programme will also be available from that day, and we invite all to come and hear and see how Innibos is going to roll out the best entertainment and arts this year,” said Sandra Jacobs, marketing director of Innibos. Though entrance is free, please bring a ball – any type or size – as an “entrance fee”. They will be distributed to needy communities. Keep on rocking the following day at The Lowveld Air Show and come dressed to the nines in your best rock ‘n’ roll outfit. Now in its fifth consecutive year, the air show has each year worked hard to bring a new and fresh approach. This year, it plans to “Rock the Runway”, with a line-up of thrilling aerobatic performances coupled with some of the best rock and roll music in history. Also read: What burglars don’t want you to know  “We believe that deep down inside, every one of us has a little rock ‘n’ roll spirit in them. It’s what we grew up with. And to combine that now with something as synonymous as fighter jets and helicopters, it’s a dream come true for young and old,” said Johan Heine, chairman of the air show. Nelspruit Airfield will also offer a wide variety of delicious food vendors, exhibitions and the biggest kids play area to date, hosted by the Just for Fun team. Tickets are on sale now at lowveldairshow.co.za. Ticket prices include a full day of air-show performances, free kids’ play area, rounded off with a Tops at Spar Rock the Runway after-party with Dewald Dippenaar. Adult tickets are R150 and school pupils pay R100. Preschoolers will again enjoy free entrance. The popular Mother’s Day concert will bring Elvis Blue and Refentse Morake to the stage in the Lowveld Botanical Garden. Also read: Color Run at Laerskool Laeveld on Monday Blue remains a rare breed in his ability to straddle both English and Afrikaans music genres with ease and his unique blend of charisma and authenticity, while Refentse will open the act with his warm voice, strains of the harmonica, some pop-hooks and the guitar. Apart from a stunning, soothing setting with music for the soul, a gourmet food market with more than 15 street-food carts as well as wine and other beverage carts will ensure that not only moms but the entire family have a delicious choice of items to nibble on while enjoying the show. Remember to bring your picnic blanket and chairs. Tickets are on sale from Computicket. Entry is free for preschoolers, while primary school learners and pensioners pay R45. All other tickets cost R85. The day’s proceeds will be donated to the Lowveld National Botanical Garden for conservation development projects. Visitors to the concert will also be able to have a professional family portrait taken on the day – for free – at the Sappi photo booth. Apart from the wonderful music line-up, there will be guided garden walks. A full programme of fun has been organised for the little ones at the kiddies’ entertainment area.
More information is available at www.sappimothersday.co.za