 HAZYVIEW – Following months of pressure by concerned residents and the business community on the provincial Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport (DPWRT), repairs have started on the R536 between Sabie and Hazyview. According to DA councillor Kleinste Janse van Rensburg, who has been working alongside members of the local communities in pressuring the department to take responsibility for the neglected stretch of road, there seems to be a solid commitment to address the issue. “Last week I spoke to Boy Nemakondo, a representative of the DPWRT, regarding the programme to fix the R536 from Hazyview to Sabie and he informed me that the filling of potholes is scheduled to be completed by the end of April,” said Janse van Rensburg. Also read: UPDATE: R538 to Numbi Gate still closed due to protests She added that Nemakondo also stated that the department expects to have the entire road filled in and resurfaced by the end of May this year. This follows an earlier report by Lowvelder in January in which the DPRWT communicated to DA MP Ken Robertson that it had committed itself to repairing the 45-kilometre stretch of road on which more than 600 potholes were counted at the time. Robertson, who has been working tirelessly in collaboration with local residents and businesses to have it repaired, said on Friday that he had, however, received information from residents that sections of the road were being sealed without potholes being filled in. Sandra Smith, who travelled on the R536 on March 4, said that added to the issue of potholes jeopardising the safety of all road users is that of severely overgrown verges which impede visibility. Also read: High Court to be completed – three years late “The potholes make it a road from hell. Most parts we had to travel on the wrong side in the way of oncoming vehicles and the verges also should be cut back,” she said. Alan Steward, a resident of the area who uses the road on a daily basis, said he can confirm that repairs have started. “From Hazyview up until the first Kiepersol turn-off the road has been resurfaced. Some potholes haven’t been filled, but as a whole it’s good to see work being done properly,” he said. He added that he was pleased to see that the DPWRT has heeded the community’s calls for action and hopes that the repairs will make the road safer for all to use and possibly draw back much-needed tourism to the towns. “If the department sticks to the deadline it has set for the entire stretch of road from Hazyview to Sabie to be filled in and resurfaced by the end of May, it would certainly be a pleasure to use,” he said. Also read: Kishugu Lowveld Air Show launch 2018 Despite numerous attempts to gather comment from the DPRWT regarding the work and planned schedule, by the time of going to press it remained unavailable for comment. “We welcome the department’s commitment to repairing the Sabie/Hazyview road. When the repairs are completed, we as a community can rest assured knowing that road users of the R536 are safer than before,” said Robertson.