 MBOMBELA – National media organisations are taking notice of threats posed to media freedom in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court. Since three local reporters were intimidated in a local district courtroom last week, Right2Know and the South African National Editor’s Forum have confirmed that they will look into the matter. Lowvelder journalists, Hancu Louw and Arisa Janse van Rensburg planned on attending criminal proceedings in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. They were seeking to report on the case against Kenneth Mkhonto, Vusi Mamba, Mfundo Mlimi, Sipho Ngutshane and Lucky Sithole. Mkhonto is an ANC ward councillor. The five allegedly burned down Mama Esther’s Haven in Msholozi. Shortly after Louw and Janse van Rensburg had entered, a Fidelity guard instructed them to leave, claiming that the courtroom was too full. This marked the first violation of their rights. Section 152 of the Criminal Procedure Act states that criminal proceedings are to be conducted in open court. Only a magistrate may order otherwise. No such order was made in this case. Sections 34 and 35 of the Constitution confirm the public nature of court pro-ceedings. The principle of open justice is fundamental to developing public trust in the judiciary, according to Deputy Chief Justica Dikgang Moseneke. Section 16 of the Constitution provides the right to freedom of expression. It gives the media the right to disseminate information and the responsibility to keep the public informed regarding newsworthy events. Once the two Lowvelder journalists were accompanied out into the corridor, they were accosted by an EFF supporter. He demanded that they leave. When Louw informed him that only a magistrate could make that decision, the man in red retorted by stating that he had no regard for the law nor a magistrate’s order. “He threatened to harm us in the event that we chose to stay at court and report,” stated Louw. “The man said he would break our cameras,” added Janse van Rensburg. Two policemen arrived. After witnessing the EFF supporter’s intimidation of both journalists, they stated that the journalists were causing an uproar and had to leave. The journalists retreated into the presiding magistrate’s chambers. She was, according to both reporters, very helpful and understanding. “We gathered there along with the accused’s attorneys, who would only identify themselves as Mr Nkosi and Mr Sambo,” said Janse van Rensburg. The attorneys conceded that the journalists were allowed into court, but one made the comment that he would not be able to control his clients once court had adjourned. Neither of the attorneys were willing to provide the publication with their contact details for purposes of obtaining comment on Thursday’s events. Louw and Janse van Rensburg decided to leave based on safety considerations. When court resumed, another journalist was still seated. The person does not want to be named for fear of victimisation. According to the source, a man entered the courtroom, pointing his finger. He reportedly said: “I know there’s another journalist here! Stand up and leave now!” The journalist stayed put. Janse van Rensburg was not prevented from attending the continuation of the case on Friday. The other reporter, however, was denied access by the same group of men. The five were released on bail of R500 each. They will appear in court again on May 11. The Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court, the Department of Justice, the EFF, Fidelity and SAPS were asked to comment on the events. Provincial police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlati responded to the incident and urged the newspaper to lay a formal complaint with the Nelspruit Police Station, as the members stationed at the court fell under their jurisdiction. At the time of going to press, no other responses had been received. The incident has, however, been a hot topic of discussion among members of the media fraternity. SA Vryskutskrywer, an online platform for journalists, indicated via its Facebook page that journalists should take note of their rights in light of what had happened. Terry Worley, editor of Northern KwaZulu-Natal Courier, stated that he had also been prevented from taking notes while reporting on a criminal case. By relying on his rights, he stayed put. Caxton Local Media digital editorial support specialist, Angela Kelly, acknowledged that court reporters get intimidated and threatened and mentioned that knowing one’s rights helps to counter this.