 MBOMBELA – Two trophies are proudly displayed in a Mpumalanga-born tattoo artist’s studio, after backbreaking work recently resulted in highly coveted awards at the 16th annual Ink & Iron show in Johannesburg. A full sleeve dotwork by Holly Theron (29), owner of Nailed in Ink, a quaint tattoo studio hidden in The Market, Riverside Mall, bagged awards for both best full sleeve (black and grey) as well as the best dotwork. This art piece, that was drawn on Claudette Caknis, took a whopping 26 hours and three separate sessions, of which the longest was 13 hours, to complete.  Claudette calls Holly a fairy, for her delicate and light hand during the process of turning her creative and artistic skills into this art piece consisting of thousands and thousand of dots. “I thought so little of my work, but these awards are evidence that I must be doing something right,” said the humble Holly, during an interview with Lowvelder. “It was a pleasant first-time ever competing experience, and it’s all thanks to my friends, colleagues, family and especially my partner. Without all the encouragement, trust and confidence invested in me, this would’ve never been possible,” said Holly.  Licensed tattoo artists require no formal education, and her affinity with art allowed her to do her first piece after just three days of apprenticeship at Skin Art SA, four years ago. It was a beautiful tribal, mid-back piece, with which the client was extremely happy with. She herself has three small tattoos, which she did herself. On her wrist is a crown, her favourite, which is a reminder that you are the king of your own choices. But not all tattoos are something you see every day, like butterflies, crowns and infinity signs. The weirdest tattoo that she has ever had to do, was the letters BA, for bad *ss, on the inside of the bottom lip of one of her clients, which faded within 24 hours by the way. Furthermore, bum cheek tattoos seem to be the new trend among foreigners. “From under the cheek to smack dab on the bum,” said Holly. Not all of them are cute, creative, and easy to cover up if you want to keep them your little secret. Three friends travelling the world, stopped by to each get a tattoo of Winnie the Pooh characters – all on the same spot – their bums, which served as a memory from their childhood. “Don’t regret your tattoos. Consider what you want and be 100 per cent sure. Make sure it’s sentimental, get a good night’s sleep, a decent meal and don’t be intoxicated, or hungover, to avoid a bigger bite,” she concluded. Also read: Award-winning tattooist views creations as living artwork