 MBOMBELA – A cyclist, Johann Wiese, was released on R500 bail following his arrest on Wednesday morning on charges of malicious damage to property following an incident that occurred on Samora Machel Drive on Saturday. Wiese was almost hit by a construction bakkie which swerved in front of him, forcing him into traffic. According to Wiese, the driver got out of his vehicle and armed with a plank, attacked him. He claimed the driver beat him with the plank in full view of a number of witnesses. Wiese sustained several injuries to his back from the blows. Also read: What burglars don’t want you to know Johann Wiese. Photo: supplied “The driver did not adhere to the yield sign. I had to swerve out into traffic to avoid being hit. As the driver turned into Samora Machel he forced me to the side of the road against the curb. Because I was about to fall, I braced against the left-hand side of the bakkie’s rear-view mirror, bending it backwards.” Due to the impact, the bakkie’s mirror bent back. “I warned him to stop (hitting me) and told him that I will have to resort to violence to defend myself. When I reported the case (later) that same day at Nelspruit Police Station, I was told that a case has been opened against me.” Also read: Color Run at Laerskool Laeveld on Monday Wiese said when the police eventually arrived at the scene the bakkie driver had a beer bottle in his hand. “It took the SAPS more than 40 minutes to respond to the scene. When I asked them to intervene they were not very helpful. They did not look into the fact that the driver had beer in his hand and had ignored a yield sign.” Due to the driver breaking the plank across his back and hitting him on the kidneys, Wiese’s system went into shock and he had to be taken from the scene by EMS to Mediclinic Nelspruit. He is he a type-one diabetic. The driver opened a case of damage to property for the damage to his rear-view mirror. Also read: Keep your home and possessions safe this Easter weekend Lt Col Erhard Stroh, SAPS spokesman, confirmed that two cases had been opened relating to the incident. “A case of assault was opened with SAPS. Both cases require further investigation,” he said. A representative of Shirdo Trading, the local construction company whose vehicle was involved in the incident, said the case was reported to the company by the driver and that an internal investigation is under way. The representative declined to comment further, pending the outcome of the internal investigation. According to Wiese, the bakkie driver was arrested on Wednesday morning, and both he and the driver will be appearing in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on April 18. At the time of going to press the SAPS could not confirm this.