 LYDENBURG – “It is not what a lawyer tells me I may do, but what humanity, reason and justice tell me I ought to do.” These were the profound words of magistrate Dr Andries Lamprecht, who passed away on March 18 after a long battle with cancer. Lamprecht was internationally known for his groundbreaking rulings in human-trafficking, rape and rhino-poaching cases. He was a devoted husband and father, and leaves his wife Marianna, his three children and two grandchildren behind. His funeral service was held on Friday, on his birthday. Lamprecht would have turned 60 years old. He was very religious. The photo from his memorial pamphlet. Kruger National Park rangers carried his coffin into and out of the church. The legal fraternity who attended all wore their robes to the service, in honour of his legacy. State advocate Isabet Erwee said she would remember Lamprecht as a man with a strong sense of justice. “His loss, as they stated at the funeral, is equal to a library being burned down. All that legal knowledge he had is gone.” Lamprecht handed down a landmark judgment that sent Lloyd Mabuza to prison for eight life terms in November 2014. The landmark sentence was the harshest ever handed down for human trafficking in South Africa. Lamprecht became known across the world after the case was reported as a victory in the fight against human trafficking worldwide, and was stated in the USA’s Trafficking in Persons Annual Report. “In 2007, he ruled on a case of a man raping another male. This paved the way forward for the Sexual Offences Act to include male rape,” said Erwee. After the groundbreaking sentence, Lamprecht was invited to lecture regarding the law and travelled to Malawi, Zimbabwe and Botswana. On March 7, 2017 the first court sitting for rhino-poaching cases was held in Skukuza. He played a significant role in the establishment of the court. He was determined to make it a success. His wife stated at the memorial that he had first been a priest in his home, like all men should be. “You are my hero and my caregiver. I respect you and I love you. In my eyes, there is not a man on this earth that could match you.”