 MBOMBELA – Last weekend it was once again time for the darling of South African fund-raisers, the annual CANSA Shavathon, and people came prepared to go bold with bright colours or a shaved dome. For a cost of R50 per adult and R25 for children under 12, people came from all over to support CANSA, all wanting to be part of the initiative to get loud in colour and give hope to cancer sufferers and survivors, as well as those affected by the dread disease. Also read: BREAKING NEWS: Two people dead after bus and bakkie collide Megan Posthumous, Nadine du Plooy, (back) Megan Verwey and Elisma van Deventer. This is the 15th year the event has taken place at sundry venues in Mbombela, and is always a roaring success, with Lowvelders coming together in support of this worthy cause, putting their locks on the line to show their symbolic support for cancer patients by having their heads shaved, wrapped or sprayed in bright and vibrant colours. This year, the annual Shavathon took place at various centres, including i’langa Mall, The Grove, Riverside Mall, Crossing Centre and Jock Pub & Grill. Despite the severity of the topic, the volunteers are always jovial and happy, and a spirit of camaraderie and happiness prevailed, with lots of cheerful banter and of course happy faces, especially the children and the young at heart. Also read: Local harp trio to perform at national music festival Jacques Putter and Joanne Smith. “We ask people to open up their hearts and spend the day relaxing while we either spray their hair red, purple, green, blue and bright orange, sometimes with the odd paw-print stenciled in!” laughs Elmarie van Deventer. “We just had someone with a long ponytail here,” she smiles broadly, “and she chopped it off to donate to us.” Brightly coloured and freshly shorn heads abounded in i’langa Mall, bringing hope into the darkness that is cancer. People going about their daily shopping were delighted to see the brightly coloured or closely shaved heads bobbing about in a sea of faces. Also read: The future of the community’s schools is firmly in the hands of the parents Prudence Mhlongo. In addition to this weekend’s programme, CANSA Lowveld also challenged local businesses to do their bit by opening up their workplaces.