 MBOMBELA – The man accused of murdering Liesl Nel (41) on February 16 appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court to apply for bail on Monday. The investigating officer, WO Jerry Mamba, offered a brief account of the police’s case. The state opposed bail. Mamba said he was called out to the scene on a smallholding in the Cairn area on Saturday February 17. When he arrived, the victim’s family members were already there. He learned that Nel’s body had been discovered in a drain. Also read: WATCH: EFF intimidates Lowvelder reporters at court She had been working on the property as a house-sitter while the owners were away. Her family told Mamba that the last person on the property, save for the victim, had been Magagula. During his investigations, Mamba also learned that the accused was the only person, aside from Nel, who could enter the property, as it was guarded by a vicious dog. He was reportedly tasked with tying up the dog prior to the murder to allow a painter access to the property. On the day before the body was discovered, Magagula and another man were working in the garden outside of the property Nel was looking after. Also read: POPI for dummies Magagula’s co-worker told Mamba that “he could see everything through the fence.” In the afternoon, he heard the sound of brakes being applied heavily in the garage. He went to investigate and saw Magagula in Nel’s Polo sedan. When he asked Magagula what he was doing, the latter replied, “The car doesn’t want to move. Go tell the owner.” Mamba continued to testify that the witness spotted Magagula entering the house at about 15:30. He emerged a while later carrying a bag. When asked whether he was leaving, the accused replied that he was coming back, yet the witness reported that he did not return. Following leads provided by more witnesses, Mamba and his investigating team tracked down Magagula on the Saturday at around 16:00 at a tavern in Pienaar, where he lives. “We went to the tavern where the accused was reported to be and on our arrival, as soon as he spotted us, he jumped up and ran away,” said Mamba. Upon further investigation Nel’s cellphone was retrieved from Magagula’s neighbour. The man claimed he had bought it from Magagula and his brother for R320. Also read: Mother and daughter on trial for murder “The accused’s brother also informed us in his statement that he and Magagula had sold an Apple laptop to a Nigerian dealer. We followed up on this information and made contact with the alleged dealer, who confirmed that he had bought an Apple laptop from the accused and his brother, but that the laptop had already been sent to Maputo,” said Mamba. According to Mamba, Magagula’s brother confirmed that both the laptop and cellphone were retrieved from the bag which Magagula had been seen with when leaving. Neither the autopsy report nor the results of the fingerprint identification has been finalised, but Mamba confirmed that Nel had been strangled. “I am opposed to bail, as the accused poses a risk of interfering with witnesses as he lives close to them and the accused has two prior convictions of GBH and robbery against him,” he said. Also read: BREAKING NEWS: Supermarket blast hospitalises 10 workers Magagula’s attorney argued that her client should be released on bail on the grounds that he is the only breadwinner for his family of four and that, despite his two previous convictions, he is not currently a flight risk. She denied the police’s claims on her client’s behalf and stated that the accused has no knowledge of the murder nor of the sale of the laptop or cellphone. He was remanded in custody. The bail hearing will continue on April 5.