 MBOMBELA – According to a statement released by Neil Diamond, acting municipal manager of the City of Mbombela Local Municipality, many people who would ordinarily pass their eye tests were failing them, and more people’s fingerprints were being rejected by the system. The new system was commissioned by the National Department of Transport and the Road Traffic Management Corporation. As a result of the delays, Verna Loots, a resident, was forced to drive to Pretoria without a licence. “Due to issues with their system, they were unable to take my fingerprints, and I was asked to return later,” she said. “The first time I tried was in November. Since then I have tried another five times, but to date I still have to drive around with a temporary licence,” she said. A notice currently requesting residents to be patient when waiting to be served at the licensing department. Days after her first attempt, Loots had to rush to Pretoria to take her husband for a triple heart bypass. Upon arrival in Pretoria she was compelled to complete an affidavit with the SAPS which stated that despite an attempt at having her licence renewed, the Mbombela licensing office was unable to assist her.  Resident, Naomi Nel said she has had to rely on a temporary licence despite having applied for a permanent renewal of her driving licence in December. “I went to the office in December, well in advance of the expiry date. When I arrived I was issued a number and asked to wait in line. More than an hour later I was served, but when it came to taking my fingerprints the clerk took prints of my thumbs instead of my index fingers, as was indicated on the printout I was given by the clerk at the front desk,” she said. CMLM licensing department in Suikkerriet Street. Nel left the offices with instructions to return in January for a second attempt at having her information processed and a new set of fingerprints taken. This once again led to issues as she was not issued with a permanent renewal, but rather a temporary driver’s licence despite having all the necessary paperwork at hand.  Diamond acknowledged residents’ frustration, but added that due to the system being implemented at national level, problems can only be addressed by staff at the national office.