 SABIE – Bullets flew in the streets of town when bank robbers were caught in the act by security officers. J&M Security operations manager Shaun Terblanche said their patrol vehicle came upon the suspects attempting to rob Standard Bank on Wednesday at around 01:36.  “They were busy inside the bank. They had just broken the bullet-proof window of one of the tellers’ booths, attempting to get to the safe when our patrol vehicle came upon the scene.” The members of the gang who were on the lookout outside of the bank, started shooting at the security officers’ vehicle. “Three shots hit our vehicle, luckily our members managed to escape before they were hit. Later on, bullet casings of Ak-47 and nine-millimetre cartridges were found.”  Phoenix Security field manager Jan Combrink said their flying squad members spotted two white Mercedes-Benzes and a gold Volvo S60 earlier that night, coming from the direction of Graskop. “One member told his colleague that, ‘These guys are here to do something tonight’.” He said they followed the vehicles until they turned into Simile. The Phoenix Flying Squad vehicle then drove back to town. “They stopped at the Caltex garage and one of the attendants informed them that they saw those same vehicles in town. “Our officers saw men standing on the road with heavy automatic rifles. The suspects then opened fire on them.”  The officers retreated and parked the security vehicle at the police station. An SAPS member joined them and they returned to the scene on foot. Another shoot-out with the suspects ensued near the Caltex filling station. “The suspects then got into their vehicles and fled the scene.” Terblanche stated that his men had seen the vehicles heading in the direction of Hazyview. Standard Bank spokesman Ross Linstrom said they were aware of the incident. “We are currently assisting the SAPS with the investigation so we cannot give more information regarding what happened.” Police spokesman Sgt Gerald Sedibe said the suspects did not manage to steal anything and nobody was injured during the incident. Crowbars, an electric extension and an axe were found in the bank. He said the police were currently investigating the matter and were searching for the gang. Anyone with information can contact Const Mpoloshe Molobela on 071-685-1211.