 MBOMBELA – “The Easter recess, which was due to start on March 23, started on March 15. The students will return for the second term on April 4,” said Themba Manana, university spokesman.  On Friday the university gates were forced open when a SAPS Njala vehicle rammed through. The gates had been closed since Monday, when students started protesting and refused to leave until late Friday afternoon. “The students started throwing rocks at the police as soon as we entered the gates,” said SAPS spokesman, Col Mtsholi Bhembe. “The police were then forced to use rubber bullets to counter the attack. We had to regain access to the premises and we had to use the most reasonable force to do so.” The students were not happy and saw this as threat to their security.
“This is our home and we have nowhere else to go. We will stay here even if the police threaten us,” said CRC chairman and SRC treasurer, Wandile Shabangu. “We did not vandalise our university. We just wanted results.”  The protest started when a list of demands was submitted by the students, which include that the university pay for all
off-campus service providers. “There is not enough accommodation on campus and we need to stay at off-campus accommodation. We want the university to pay these off-campus service providers. They have done so in the past but no money was paid this year.” The UMP off-campus service providers said that they never urged the students to protest on their behalf. “Unfortunately we were on the list of demands brought forward by the students. We are hosting 60 per cent of the students. When the university did not pay we still went on providing accommodation for the students.
“We outsource our transport and due to lack of payment the buses could not afford fuel. This was the final straw for the students and the protests started,” the off-campus service providers explained.  They also said that the university has started with payments.
Other demands by the students included the building of a private clinic on campus and that the university must pay all transport and accommodation for the students of the university.
SRC chairman and CRC vice-chairman, Mxolisi Ncgamphalala also demanded that vice-chancellor Prof Thoko Mayekiso and the rest of the university management step down.
“Some of the students’ demands are that by the time we come back from recess, the situation goes back to normal,” Manana said.  Also read: Student protesters close gates at University of Mpumalanga