 GRASKOP – The wow factor is not on top, it is in the gorge. And the lift is not the attraction. What you will find down under in the gorge is the real gem. This is how Graskop Gorge Lift Co director, Campbell Scott describes Africa’s first viewing lift. This newest tourist attraction of the Lowveld has already gained much attention since opening at the end of December. The centre opened its doors to the public in mid-December with the lift itself only operating since December 30. On Christmas Day, 2 018 people visited and 382 bought tickets to ride the lift on its second day of operation, December 31. According to the other director, Oupa Pilane, even social media has been abuzz since photos and videos of the development hit Facebook and other platforms. Last week media representatives were invited to experience what the centre has to offer. The lift travels at one metre per second and goes 51 metres down the cliff face of the Graskop Gorge. It can take about 20 people at a time. It is a comfortable ride and not a daring, scary experience. The bottom and sides of the carriage are solid, with only the top half of the walls on three sides made of glass. Below, a circular trail of about 600 metres through the forest boasts elevated boardwalks, suspension bridges and information and interpretation boards. Special features add extra magic, like the mushroom and butterfly bar sections skilfully incorporated in the Afromontane forest. A portion of the walkway has wheelchair access. In South Africa, Afromontane forests cover only 0,5 per cent of the country’s land area. They occur in pockets along mountain ranges in well-watered areas, including ravines and south-facing slopes. Under the vivid green canopy of trees lies a lush wonderland filled with a spectacular variety of plants, animals, insects and birds. The centre itself is perched on the top of the cliff edge with spectacular views of the Motitsi Waterfall, the forest below and long views down into the Lowveld. It also has a contemporary African art gallery and fashion clothing shop, a curio shop and community craft market. Outside is ample parking for cars and buses. The Lift Café can seat 170 people – 110 seats inside and 60 seats on an outdoor, covered veranda. The entry fee to the Graskop Gorge Lift Site is R20 and a ride in the lift costs R175 for adults and R120 for children under 16 and pensioners. UPDATE: Mpumalanga to redo state of the province debate on Friday