 MBOMBELA – In one instance a City to City bus is seen overtaking two sedans on the R539 Schoemanskloof Road. The outraged road user who posted it to Facebook said it happened at 13:50 on Sunday.
In another incident a Coca-Cola delivery truck can be seen passing other trucks on a bend on Long Tom Pass. Grant Scheepers, who took the photos, said he came across the truck at about 15:15 on Monday. “I was on my way from Burgersfort to Mbombela when I saw the truck driving recklessly for the first time.
On Long Tom Pass I caught the driver driving recklessly once more.”
Mmusi Moeti, spokesman for community safety, security and liaison, said 18 people have lost their lives in accidents on Schoemanskloof over the past 12 months.  In January MEC Pat Ngomane said when he released the festive season road statistics, that most crashes were caused by human error and behaviour. Between December 1 and January 9 a total of 37 385 fines was issued to motorists for, among other offences, exceeding the speed limit, overtaking on a barrier line, violating road traffic signs, and using cellphones while driving.
The drivers’ behaviour outraged the public. “This villain will kill other people’s children. He must be stopped,” said Joani Tozer in a comment on the post. Another Facebook user, Hennie Goosen, said they also saw how carelessly the bus had been driving. “We were also at the Schoemanskloof pass at that time and saw the bus driving quite indifferently, especially at Patatanek. We really hope that the company will take the necessary measures. ”
City to City spokesman Nozipho Jafta said the company sees itself as a responsible road user and takes road safety very seriously.
“The matter is being investigated and receiving attention at the highest level of the organisation. Drivers who are caught not obeying the rules of the road, are subjected to a disciplinary process which can lead to dismissal,” Jafta said.
“We would like to assure the public that we are taking this matter and all other road-safety procedures in high regard and are working behind the scenes to resolve this issue speedily,” said Nathalie Hendricks, regional public affairs and communications manager at Coca-Cola. “The images that are depicted on the post are unacceptable and go against the business’ policies and procedures. All drivers receive the necessary training and are assessed to ensure that they comply with the highest driver standards.”
Moeti said the problem is that unfortunately they cannot be on the road constantly. “However, we encourage motorists to respect one another on the road and to take the safety of others into account.”