 MBOMBELA – Lowvelder reported in December how the school owner, Helen van Niekerk, was left frustrated because she was unable to open the planned school in Giraffe and Arend streets in January. Neighbours objected and the matter was referred to the tribunal eight months ago. It failed to sit in October, November and December.
Finally it sat on February 1 and was supposed to give Van Niekerk an answer in 21 days. This date came and went, and she was informed that a decision will taken on March 2. The MPT only told her that the matter was yet to finalised.
Van Niekerk pointed out that, in April, it will be one year since Crayon Pre-school began the consent process. “The school was approved by the municipality in principle in July, because it more than complies with all of the municipal requirements. “We have the utmost respect and consideration for neighbours and have shown that in our planning and preparation and we addressed all of the neighbours’ concerns,” she added. She cited a number of steps they took to limit traffic and noise disturbances, carefully selecting the property to fit these criteria too and commission professional traffic studies. “All schools are located in neighbourhoods, every school is surrounded by houses. They do not belong in commercial or industrial areas, they belong in neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods belong to communities. “The consent process is flawed when neighbours are allowed to vindictively stop growth and development with no tangible concerns. The municipality must step in and support the applicant who is investing their time and money to provide a community service, in every way to finalise the process expediently. “If Crayon Pre-school does not get consent it will be due to incompetence and personal issues. Where does this leave future prospects of further private investment into the education of our children?” The City has not responded to the newspaper’s repeated questions about the matter since December.  Also read: Tribunal holds up school opening in Mbombela