 WHITE RIVER – So-called “knitwits” and “hookers” from all over the Lowveld gathered at Casterbridge Barnyard last Wednesday to show the fruit of their labours for 67 Blankets for Nelson Mandela Day. 67 Blankets founder, Carolyn Steyn, also attended the function, and greeted guests with a warm heart and thankfulness.  “We are knitting our lives together. More than that, we are knitting our country together as well as countries from all over the world. And I want to thank you ‘happy hookers’ so very much for all that you have done for the foundation,” a very humble Steyn said.  Legendary entertainer Michael de Pinna had guests laughing and dancing up a storm. “I am celebrating my 50th year in showbiz this year and it is an absolute privilege to still be performing.” He dedicated the hit “Sweet Caroline”, which he changed to “Sweet Carolyn” for Steyn, to the person he described as “an incredible woman with such a lovely heart. She got people knitting all over the world, from India to Wales.”  Also read: Spreading love a blanket at a time Guests were also entertained by the Casterbridge Music Development Academy which sang proudly South African songs that had the crowd on their feet. The blankets that were gathered on this day were delivered to Siyakhula Primary School on Thursday.
Christine Simelane, teacher at the school, introduced the project in 2015.  “We won a few competitions that were launched by the foundation and we used the money to buy wool. The entire school is knitting now,” Simelane said.  “We appreciate all the donations as well. We can now donate everything to people in need. Our school is located in an impoverished community, but we realise that there are people who have even less than we do,” said an emotional Simelane. “We teach our children that even though we do not have very much, we are still able to give.” The foundation has many other projects happening this year, including a giant, knitted version of Nelson Mandela’s face to commemorate his 100th birthday and to continue the legacy of peace and kindness that he left in South Africa. 