 MBOMBELA – History was made when the unmistakable, rip-roaring sound of the Sikorsky UH-60A, better known as the Black Hawk, filled the air on Wednesday. Africa’s first Black Hawk to fight blazes in the Lowveld After months of paperwork, which was essential in acquiring this US Army Special Forces aircraft, the Black Hawk finally took to the sky.
Mark Jackson, owner of the locally based company Leading Edge Aviation, at Nelspruit Airfield, bought the Black Hawk and started the long process of importing it to South Africa in 2016. In October 2017 South Africa’s first-ever Black Hawk was successfully imported, making it only the second one in history to enter civilian service outside the United States at the time. This 1980 Black Hawk was, in the meanwhile, assembled and painted at Leading Edge Aviation, and will soon become a member of the Working on Fire aerial firefighting fleet. Jackson, who flies for Kishugu Aviation and is one of the most-skilled Huey and aerial firefighting pilots in the country, was beaming with excitement as his new helicopter took flight in the hands of his son Peter and fellow pilot Tosh Ross. In 2016 Peter and Tosh underwent specialised flight training in Montana to enable them to pilot this machine. Their training paid off with a seamless 30-minute flight over the city. Peter, filled to the brim with adrenalin after reaching speeds of 250 kilometres per hour, simply described the flight as astonishing. Also read: History is made Kishugu Aviation will now make use of these skilled pilots and their aircraft to ensure aerial firefighting is done even more effectively in South Africa.  The Black Hawk has a very modern design to it, with many new safety features, and it is still being produced in the US.
“The Black Hawk will complement our firefighting fleet, such as the Hueys, that we are currently using in firefighting operations. It can reach speeds of up to 300 kilometres per hour and lift three tons of water per drop, where the
Hueys are currently doing one ton,” concluded Mark.  