 Working on Fire (WOF) annually hosts provincial school debate competitions to educate youth on environmental issues and to encourage them to become involved. Being fire-wise is an empowering skill to have. It enables people to make a difference by helping prevent unwanted fires and ensuring the safety of themselves and those around them in the event of an unwanted fire. The South African Government’s Expanded Public Works Programme and the Working on Fire Programme believe in empowering communities – and especially our youth – through a variety of fire-wise activities. As a result, WOF recently launched its annual countrywide Working on Fire School Debate Competition. The first debate in Mpumalanga took place on Thursday August 30 at Litjelembube Secondary in the Oskhoek and Badplaas area. Grade eight and nine learners from four local schools participated in this debate: the Brook Combined School, Litjelembube Secondary, Holeka Secondary School and Masakhane Combined School. The topics for this event were “Do invasive alien plants increases the risk of wildfires?” and “Are storms, drought, flood and wildfires natural phenomena or the result of climate change?” Read More:Kishugu and Working on Fire give back to the SPCA The schools were informed of the topics in advance, which gave them the opportunity to research the topics and prepare their arguments. “By hosting these debates, we want to give learners the opportunity to learn more and think about environmental issues that impact them and their future,” explained Mbuso Siwela, Working on Fire community fire awareness officer. “The learners participated excellently and really enjoyed the opportunity to air their opinions.” Komati Land Forestry and Inkomati Usuthu Catchment Management partnered with WOF in this event and donated shirts and prizes. At the end of the day, the Brook Combined School’s team was awarded first prize while Litjelembube Secondary came second. “I really enjoyed the debate. We learned a lot about being fire-safe and taking care of the environment,” said one of the participating pupils. Debates are scheduled at a number of schools across Mpumalanga, and the competition will conclude at the end of September.