 KIA Motors South Africa confirmed that the multiple award-winning Stinger has arrived in South Africa. It has proved to be a runaway success worldwide. “Unlike any KIA that has come before it, the Stinger is the embodiment of an everyday dream car,” says Gary Scott, CEO of KIA Motors South Africa. “From its birth as the GT concept, through the years of tuning and refining it on the legendary Nürburgring Nordschleife, no detail was spared to create a true gran turismo.It is not about outright power, hard-edged dynamics and brutal styling at the expense of luxury, comfort and grace. Instead, it’s a driver’s car equally suitable for spirited long-distance driving and everyday enjoyment.”  The KIA Stinger was designed in Europe by Peter Schreyer, chief design officer and president, and Gregory Guillaume, senior chief designer for KIA Motors Europe. The car’s chassis and drivetrain were honed at the Nürburgring Nordschleife and on some of the most dynamically challenging driving roads around the world under the direction of Albert Biermann, executive vicepresident and head of vehicle test and high performance development.  Since making its global debut at the 2017 North American International Auto Show and going on sale in global markets late last year, Stinger has been honoured with a series of prestigious awards. Most crucially, the Stinger was shortlisted for both the North American and European Car of the Year awards, as well as the 2018 World Car of the Year Awards.  Its sleek gran turismo looks have resulted in a 2018 “iF design award”, one of the most prestigious pan-industrial design awards, as well as a “Best of the Best” award at the 2018 Red Dot Design Awards, while its 3,3-litre twin-turbo V6 petrol engine has been named on the Ward’s ‘10 Best Engines’ list for 2018. KIA Motors South Africa introduced the Stinger in GT trim, powered by the highperformance 3,3-litre twin-turbocharged V6 petrol engine that develops 272kW of power at 6 000r/min and 510Nm of torque between 1 300 and 4 500r/min.  Paired with an eight-speed automatic transmission that drives power to the rear wheels, Stinger is the most powerful and fastest-accelerating production KIA ever, with a 0 to 100km/h sprint time of 4,9 seconds and a top speed of 270km/h.