 MBOMBELA – “We arrived at the hospital at around 09:00 and had to wait until 15:00. They told us there was a shortage of staff to assist us, but I watched the nurses casually walking around not helping anyone.” Eventually when they were helped, they were informed to bring their child back on Tuesday as the X-ray department was closed for the long weekend. “While we were there we witnessed a young boy and a woman who died in the casualty as nobody helped them. Another woman came in with her daughter aged about five years old who had been bitten by a dog. She eventually left with the child, as nobody helped her.”  Nkosi said he was forced to take his child back to the hospital on Tuesday where they discovered that his hand was broken. “My child was in pain all this time. I am angry. Why do we pay taxes for people to get fat salaries and not do their jobs? Plus they get medical aids, so their children and families do not have to die or suffer in pain like our families have to. If they did not have medical aids given to them maybe their service would greatly improve.” A trustworthy source at the Department of Health confirmed that two people had died that morning at Themba and that the X-ray departments were closed at all the hospitals over long weekends or public holidays regardless of emergencies.  Lowvelder went to investigate the situation at the hospital on Wednesday. There were signs in the casualty that stated that patients would be seen within a maximum period of two hours upon their arrival. Asking the patients who were waiting to see a doctor, many confirmed that they had been there for longer than the specified time period. The source also added that Themba Hospital had a shortage of beds for all their patients, which resulted in the delays. Department of Health spokesman, Dumisane Malamule responded by saying that, as a department, they had noted the consensus of complaints from the general public about Themba Hospital. “We have received complaints about people not being given the proper treatment and allegations of rude staff members.” He said the department would be investigating the deaths that occurred on Sunday morning and the fact that the X-ray department was closed. “Nobody had reported that the X-ray departments were not working over weekends and public holidays. We have taken note of all this and will be investigating it.” In regards to how the staff could improve service if they had no medical aid from government, he concluded that that was an internal staff situation.