 The Kruger Lowveld region is a very popular holiday destination but with the wide variety of activities and sometimes scorching weather, it can sometimes be overwhelming. Therefore the Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism (KLCBT) has released essential travel tips to assist you. When travelling inside the Kruger National Park or any other game reserve, make sure that you are aware of the rules and that you abide by them to ensure your own safety and that of the animals. Do not speed and always remember that the animals have right of way.  The seasons in the southern hemisphere are directly opposite to those in the northern hemisphere. For summer months, lightweight cottons and linens and short-sleeved clothes are best, although a light jersey/ jumper, sweater might be needed for the cooler evenings. Umbrellas and raincoats are essential for summer, and do not forget to pack your suntan lotion. Warmer clothes are needed in the winter.  Most major shopping centres and malls operate seven days a week, but you might find that in smaller towns and rural areas that shops could be closed on Sundays and occasionally for lunch between 13:00 and 14:00. READ ALSO: Tourism initiative lifts Graskop  Malaria is found occasionally and only in the Lowveld region of the Kruger Lowveld. There is a very low risk of malaria in the winter. Although the incidence of malaria is extremely rare, it is best to take adequate precautions if you visit these areas. The cheapest, safest and most effective measures against malaria are physical barriers such as a mosquito net and the use of a good insect repellent.  For tourists, the Kruger Lowveld region is as safe as any other destination in the world. While the region boasts a vast array of cultures, communities and attractions, most parts of the region can be safely visited by tourists provided that they take basic precautions, for example not walking alone in deserted areas at night and being circumspect about how much photographic equipment or flashy jewellery they carry.  READ ALSO: Tourism South Africa briefing for Tourism Indaba 2018 