 MBOMBELA – “It is still a long process but he will recover eventually.” This is what Pierre Pretorius said about his good friend, Desmond Molenaar. Desmond was brutally attacked at the family’s smallholding on August 8 and suffered damage to his head and face. Molenaar’s wife Nancy previously said that they were sitting in the kitchen right before the attack happened. READ ALSO: Man attacked in mysterious circumstances on Uitkyk Road “Desmond was sitting next to the window when we saw two men approaching,” Nancy said. She jumped up and, screaming, ran to their eight-year-old twin boys’ bedroom. She pushed the panic button and stayed with the children, who are now temporarily living with Pretorius and his wife. The Molenaar family: Desmond and Nancy with sons Brian and James. Desmond is recovering at Millpark Hospital in Johannesburg where Nancy is by his side. According to Pretorius he has already undergone three surgeries. “We visited him about a week ago and it seems like he is doing a lot better. He is awake but cannot speak yet as he is breathing through a pipe in his trachea,” Pretorius said. According to Pretorius they were the first on the scene and they left before the police came. He, however, is of the opinion that the police and the forensic team on the scene are not doing their jobs. READ ALSO: UPDATE: Wife speaks about mysterious attack on plot on Uitkyk Road According to police spokesman, Lt Col Erhard Stroh, they are still awaiting the forensic report. “Some investigations take longer than others. I was not able to speak to Nancy yet as she is in Johannesburg and we also do not have a statement from Desmond yet,” Stroh said. He said that these are essential in the case but “the most important thing now is that Desmond gets better first”. According to Stroh the police are investigating and they have spoken to Desmond’s mother-in-law as well as the housekeeper, even though she was not present at the time of the attack. READ ALSO: Hope for Desmond Molenaar after attack at Uitkyk-home