 Zavora Lodge’s Linda Cooke said, “Závora Divers at Zavora Lodge would like to thank everyone for their patience and understanding during this very difficult time in the aftermath of the tragic diving accident, which occurred on August 25. “We are particularly grateful for all the support we received in the search and rescue efforts to find Eleonora Contin and the outpouring of concern and offers of assistance.” She said they were given strict instructions by the Mozambique Authorities (PIC) (Mozambican Criminal Investigation Police) investigating the dive accident not to issue a formal statement until the investigation was concluded and their findings were made available. ALSO READ: Teenagers caught in nightclub raids in Mbombela She did disclose that on the day, the dive was done off a Zavora dive boat at a dive site called “Deep Reef South” at 9:30. “This dive site is approximately 11 kilometres off-shore from Zavora, with depths of 30-36 metres. We can confirm that Matteo, Eleonora’s husband was her dive buddy on the dive. Eleonora was a qualified PADI Advanced diver. Surface conditions were fair, under water conditions were 5– 7 metre visibility with a strong north – south current.” Once Eleonora was noted as missing by Matteo, an eight-hour surface search was initiated using two boats, conducting drift searches and circular searches. “A team of divers returned to the reef at 12:00 the same day to search the dive site.”
The following day, a helicopter was found and dispatched from Maputo to conduct further searches of the area and coastline. “Eleonora’s body was discovered by local fishermen last Tuesday.” Cooke confirmed that an autopsy was performed in Quissico, Mozambique last Tuesday where the cause of death was confirmed as drowning. “No further details have been made available to us.” She added that Zavora Lodge become an accredited NAUI dive centre in 2016. Prior to 2016 Zavora Lodge was a PADI affiliated dive centre. With regards to the accreditation of the dive instructor who led the dive, Manuel Marcelino (Manny), when Eleonora went missing; they provided the following details: • Manny is a fully certified instructor and technical diver accredited with NAUI • Manny qualified as a PADI dive master in 2009 and did his NAUI dive instructor qualification in 2016 • Manny has over 18 years’ of experience and over 5000 dives to his name diving the Zavora Reefs and surrounds In conclusion, she said they would like to clarify that the Go Fund Me account which was set up to raise money to fund the search and rescue effort was started by Eleonora’s husband. “ Zavora Lodge and myself only promoted the initiative in an effort to gain support. Gobbi is the only person who has access to the funds raised through this. Zavora Lodge and myself have no access to any monies generated in the effort to find Eleonora.” Gobbi left Mozambique for Italy on Tuesday.