 Secunda Regional Court has convicted and sentenced two rapists from Standerton for multiple counts of rape, kidnapping and assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm (assault GBH). Morena Khaba (21) was sentenced to life imprisonment for 14 counts of rape, two of kidnapping and one count of assault GBH. Khaba was sentenced alongside Thulani Khumalo (21) who was sentenced to 15 years in prison for 11 counts of rape and one count of kidnapping. They are both from Standerton. National Prosecuting Authority spokesman, Monica Nyuswa, said their victims were between the ages of 14 and 15 years and were residing in the same area. “The court heard the accused would kidnap their victims, keep them in a certain house for days, force them to lie down and take turns in raping them,” she explained. ALSO READ:Rapist to serve 30 years in jail “In January 2013 they kidnapped the first complainant together with her friend, who is the second complainant in the matter, they kept them and took turns in raping them. Khaba was a suspect in other complaints and was arrested while he was in the company of the third complainant. This was after the matter was reported to the police by one of the neighbours. He was further charged with three counts of rape, assault with grievous bodily harm and kidnapping of the third complainant that took place on January 21-22 and was arrested,”she added. ALSO READ:Curlews rapist gets 20 years “Both accused pleaded not guilty to the charges. However, the Regional Court Prosecutor Phumzile Nkosi, led testimonies of the three victims who told the court how the rape incidents happened, alongside evidence of witnesses and medical evidence regarding two of the victims. The prosecutor further led DNA evidence which linked Khaba with complainant number three in the matter. Victim impact statements were also submitted.” During sentencing, the court found no substantial and compelling circumstances to deviate from the minimum prescribed sentence. Both accused were found guilty as charged. “Khumalo’s sentence in count two will run concurrently with the sentence in count one, which means Khumalo will serve 20 years’ direct imprisonment. The presiding officer ordered the sentence in count two and three to run concurrently with the sentence in count one. Effectively Khaba will serve one life imprisonment,” said Nyuswa.