 The CEO of Rob Ferreira Hospital, Fridah Nyathi, has been suspended. Following previous allegations of maladministration, Nyathi has been given a precautionary transfer to the head office. On Tuesday, operations at Rob Ferreira were illegally brought to a halt by a small group of protesters. They blocked the entrance and exit to the hospital, in full view of a number of police officers on the scene, and deemed this hospital the most corrupt one in the country. Yet, the same group protesting corruption demands the return of Nyathi, who is currently under investigation for alleged maladministration.  Before Nyathi, Dr Gladys Koete tried to captain the sinking ship that is Rob Ferreira. She resigned in December 2014, stating she wasn’t interested in a “job without direction”.In a non-violent but disruptive way, the protesters demanded Nyathi’s return, but doctors and ambulances who pleaded to be allowed in were refused. The reporter on the scene brought this to the attention of a nearby police officer. “Tell that to the protesters,” he said. A hearse on its way from Swaziland, also transporting the mother of the deceased, was also blocked at the hospital’s entrance. The deceased was allegedly a young police officer.  With the helpless mother standing next to the vehicle crying, one of the protesters said this was only a desperate measure to have the HOD address their concerns. HOD Dr Savera Mohangi, however, refused to address the crowd unless they organise themselves into their respective unions. ALSO READ: Faulty fuel truck confiscated According to the Department of Health’s spokesman, Dumisani Malamule, the department has temporarily moved the CEO from the hospital to conduct a thorough investigation on the allegations levelled against her. “The department will soon appoint an interim CEO until the investigation has been completed,” he said.   Following this decision, the employees embarked on Tuesday’s strike, demanding that she be brought back to her position after the precautionary transfer to head office. They dispersed after a short while and a meeting was then held on Wednesday with all labour unions. The reasons for the precautionary transfer of the CEO and other matters of alleged maladministration at the hospital were clarified. The meeting resolved that the striking employees will go back to work and all parties will respect the process of the investigation until the process has been finalised.  Another 21 allegations were lodged, which will now be investigated. “The department, through recommendations of the outcome of the investigation, will decide on the next course of action. The department would like to assure the public that services are being rendered at Rob Ferreira Hospital and that no further disruption will occur. ALSO READ: Father outraged over Themba Hospital treatment The department would further like to apologise to everyone that may have been affected by the short strike that occurred,” Malamule concluded. 