 MBOMBELA – The Black Cat Bones live and breathe old school rock. This is exactly what BosRock is all about. The old school concert takes place at Kwanyoni Lodge on October 6. The Black Cat Bones will be joined on the day by the RIDERS (Mel Botes, Valiant Swart, Piet Botha, Robin Auld and Arthur en Rudolph Dennis from Akkedis), as well as Jonathan Peyper and local rock acts Gibraltar and Goat N Hare. READ MORE: BosRock bringing old school rock to the Lowveld The Black Cat Bones is considered one of the top acts in South Africa. At BosRock, concertgoers can look forward to an “honest, true-to-the-bone live delivery without fear of making mistakes or not looking cool enough on stage”, from the band. SEE THE EVENT HERE: Bosrock Festival – Nelspruit The band was formed in Pretoria in 2007. Kobus de Kock jr is on vocals, André Kriel plays guitars, Chris van der Walt is on bass and Gareth Bunge is on drums. Both their debut album, Silverton Swamp Songs (2009), and the critically acclaimed second helping, The Long Drive (2011), were heavily influenced by Kobus and Andre’s blues roots. In 2013 the band released their third (SAMA nominated) studio album, Beatipiller, which showcased their collective influences as a diverse four-piece rock act. In the same year the band also won the MK Award for “Best Live Act” and emerged from being underground sub-culture champions to a group that is adored nationwide by a constantly expanding, and ever-loyal following from all walks of life. READ MORE: Gibraltar is gerat vir BosRock They also have a new album set for release later this year. Fans expect a culmination of all their collective influences – yet still rooted in the original Bones foundations. They are looking forward to BosRock. “It is old school and it’s rock. This is what we live and breathe.” BosRock takes place on October 6 at Kwanyoni Lodge from 12:00 til late. Mahindra Nelspruit, Storm Produktionz, Lowvelder en Panarottis i’langa are the main sponsors. Concertgoers can also park for free at i’langa Mall on the day at catch a ride with Citybug for R20 to the venue and back. Tickets start at R100 up to R300 and are available from Computicket. 