Partnering with SPARK Media and Caxton, Guzzle has led the online retail catalogue aggregator space since its inception in 2011 and has seen some impressive growth. “By July 2018, Guzzle’s audience grew to 534 000 unique browsers and, with a 15% month-on-month increase in site users, we expect the site to reach 700 000 unique browsers by November 2018,” says Joint CEO of SPARK Media, Marc du Plessis. “Our retail and media agency clients have in the past seen fantastic returns on this platform. With the site’s recently refreshed functionality, Guzzle will undoubtedly remain the leader in its field.” The enhanced www.guzzle.co.za provides a cleaner, more user-friendly layout, as well as offers advertising clients further opportunities to reach and engage with Guzzle users, ultimately getting more eyeballs on their specials and driving further referral traffic to a brands website. Guzzle’s General Manager, Muntasir Bester adds: “Guzzle was first to market, and we’ve always been ahead of our competitors by building a solid platform for retailers to conveniently extend the reach of their leaflets. Our new fresh look includes a number of updated features and paves the way for future plans.” In addition to the new ad units and slicker user experience, Guzzle users can now set alerts for when their preferred retailers’ catalogues go live, or when catalogues that contain products that they’re interested in become available. By deep-linking client catalogues into Guzzle’s ecommerce site, the site helps drive consumers straight to “Buy Now” pages. “Guzzle has more exciting developments lined up, for example a dedicated B2B app that will be launching soon,” says du Plessis. “This will provide SMEs with the opportunity to create and publish high quality catalogues on Guzzle. We look forward to the next phase of our partnership with this platform.” SPARK Media DNA
Established in 2015, SPARK Media, a division of CTP Ltd, are experts in retail and location-based marketing solutions. The company owns and represents a myriad of print and digital products that deliver locally relevant, effective audiences for advertising clients. SPARK Media are Strategic Partners in Audience Research and Knowledge and offer ‘Insights that Ignite’.