 MBOMBELA – Kruger Lowveld Tourism (KLT) embarked on its annual tourism roadshow last week. On Wednesday the event for Mbombela and Barberton was held at Nou’s Toeka. Local tourism organisations (LTOs) and stakeholders from these areas were all in attendance. According to Oupa Pilane, chairman of KLT, these annual roadshows take place in September since the month is dedicated to tourism in the country. “We are visiting different areas in the Ehlanzeni region to provide attendees with an update on tourism in the Kruger Lowveld Ehlanzeni region, create a master vision for the region, develop tourism to benefit all and discuss the alignment of LTOs with municipalities and the role of information offices in emerging areas,” he said. Mark Ngwenyama, programme manager of Batobic, gave a brief presentation about the Makhonjwa Mountains of Barberton. He said the recent declaration of Makhonjwa Mountains, known as the Barberton Greenstone Belt as a World Heritage Site by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation, has enhanced the town and the province’s tourism destinations. Read More: Bring Change Lowveld: Oupa Pilane’s advice on being successful “It was never an easy journey to get the Makhonjwa Mountains onto the world map. Now that it is there, grab the opportunity with both hands. Use it wisely for our future generations,” he said. The roadshows started last Tuesday at Thaba Chewu where they were held at Floreat Riverside Lodge. On Thursday they visited LTOs and stakeholders of White River and Hazyview and they met at Premier Hotel The Winkler.
On September 26 they will be in Nkomazi and they will meet at Elangeni Lodge from 10:00. They will wrap up their roadshows by visiting Bushbuckridge. They will be at Moholoholo Lodge at 10:00 and wrap up the day at Mangwazi Lodge from 14:00. Pilane said they encourage everyone already established in the tourism industry, people interested in setting up a tourism business and those interested in developing tourism in their area to attend. Attendance is free of charge. However, attendees are required to book their seat. For bookings, contact Noleen Pillay on 013-755-1988.