 MBOMBELA – Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA) spokesman, Kholofelo Nkambula said they were alerted on Sunday morning about a male lion who was seen on the N4. Pictures and videos of the majestic and beautiful male quickly circulated on Facebook and Twitter shortly after he was spotted by passers-by between Marloth Park and Hectorspruit. SANParks rangers, police, MTPA’s Dr Ferreira du Plessis, Mpumalanga Veterinary Services and community members of Marloth Park conducted a search for the lion in the area. At one stage during the search, the road towards Marloth was closed while they hunted for Napoleon. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Lion captured and to be taken back to KNP Finally he was spotted by a SANParks helicopter and darted. He was then safely transported to his home in the Kruger National Park (KNP). Du Plessis said they had seen an increase over the past year and a half of lions escaping from the Kruger.  “We know of about six lions since the beginning of the year that have escaped.”
He said there were different reasons regarding this. “This is not just because of a broken fence, although sometimes it does play a role. “There has been an increase in the lion population and sizes of a pride. We are finding that most of the lions who are escaping are nomadic male lions.” He said anyone who has had a domestic animal like a dog who managed to escape despite a fence, could understand how they manage to escape. “If an animal wants to get out, they will find a way.” Napolean, he said, weighed around  200 kilograms and was in a healthy condition. On August 15 a lion was spotted roaming near Matsulu that morning. Residents of the area apparently saw the big cat. Tracks were found on a dust road, but were lost due to high traffic volumes in the area. It was assumed that the lion might have returned to the KNP. On May 29 Lowvelder reported a sighting of a young male lion on the R37 that night. It was seen about 20 kilometres from Sabie on the Long Tom Pass. He was successfully darted and captured not far from where he was first spotted. He was found with some slight injuries, hence he was transported to a rehabilitation facility first. 