 From the many years of living in Johannesburg, I will never forget happy evenings at my two favourite Greek restaurants: Parea Taverna, at the top end of Corlett close to the corner of Oxford, and The Good Times Café in Melville’s main road. When in Cape Town, it was Maria’s in Gardens and Ari’s Souvlaki in Green Point. Authentic robust Mediterranean dishes. Oily, herby, garlicky – the tastes complemented with fresh lemon and tarty olives, spiced with freshly ground black pepper: lamb, line fish, calamari and aubergine. Haloumi, feta and spinach.  Later, settling in the Lowveld, Grace Rodriques’ simple eatery, Shuw-Abs in a side passageway in Riverside Mall was an exciting culinary discovery, later to become The Greek Kouzina in Sonpark. It offers a good variety of dishes, all well executed in the traditional style, made with ingredients fresh and authentic.  Paging through the 40 most recent comments on Trip Advisor, only a single negative point is mentioned, being the noise of the busy Barberton Road when lounging on the outside deck. Inside it is much quieter and cooler against the Lowveld summer heat. Other comments are as follows: “Something different in Nelspruit, and the whole scope of Greek food is available. The service is great and the place is quiet. Overall my experience here has always been great and in my opinion, great value for money,” writes Edward from Nelspruit. Owner of Greek Kouzina, Grace Rodriques, tells of some of the delectable favourites.  “I have visited this fine establishment a few times when staying in Nelspruit. It remains a superb eatery with great food and competitive pricing. I will be going back!” says Hendrix from Johannesburg. The extensive menu offers the whole spectrum of traditional Greek dishes, prepared simply and flavoured well. Among the starters or mezze, my favourite remains the pan-grilled squid heads. This is also served as a main portion. The home-made dolmades, savoury rice wrapped in cured vine leaves, are another rare dish nowhere else to be found in the Lowveld. Ah, and the spanakopita, baked spinach and feta wrapped in filo, is also a treat I cannot refrain from mentioning. View the full Greek Kouzina menu here in this handy electronic flip-through. You can see the menu above, because it has far too many choices to mention. Depending on whether it is lunch or dinner, my favourites among the mains is the grilled hake or slow braised lamb shank kleftiko. Oh, and it is important not to leave The Greek Kouzina without trying the baklava cigars – only if it is just once. With the pistachio halva ice cream on your tongue, you can easily close your eyes and imagine yourself on the Plaka in Athens or sitting at a rickety table on the waterfront in Mykonos – except for the muffled noise of the Barberton Road outside!  