 Lexus has dramatically advanced its expansion into a luxury lifestyle brand by unveiling a production prototype of its first yacht. Known as the Lexus LY 650, the new luxury yacht will become the fourth L-branded Lexus flagship alongside the LS sedan, LC coupe and LX SUV. The first completed vessel is expected in the second half of 2019 and will make its global debut late in the year. While Lexus is renowned for crafting amazing automobiles, the LY 650 is the first production maritime expression of the brand’s contemporary L-finesse design language. It enhances the reputation of Lexus as a top-tier brand dedicated to offering a full range of expertly crafted halo models – and not just inside the automotive sphere. Lexus has previously celebrated its “Experience Amazing” commitment by partnering with some of the world’s finest purveyors of non-automotive luxury lifestyle ventures, offering culinary, film, design and other select opportunities to interact with the brand. These associations have been driven by Lexus International president Yoshihiro Sawa’s vision of Lexus as a brand that “explores new ways to deliver innovative and amazing experiences for our guests”. The stunning Lexus LY 650 yacht picks up where the widely acclaimed 2017 Lexus Sport Yacht Concept left off, extending the brand’s exploration of new frontiers. The decision to produce the yacht was fuelled by Lexus executive vice-president Shigeki Tomoyama’s desire to “present a dream-like vision of the luxury lifestyle; one where the Lexus Yacht expands the potential of Lexus mobility to the ocean”. The Lexus LY 650 has a distinguished style found in its strong, pronounced bow, curved deck accents and accentuated aft hips. Viewed from the profile, the elegant rise and fall of the yacht’s distinctly Lexus roofline flows into rising, broad hips of the rear section. It retains several of the most attractive features from the 12,8-metre concept, but is longer overall at 19,96 metres with a beam of 5,79 metres. It will be built, sold and serviced by renowned US-based boat manufacturers Marquis-Larson. Complementing the renowned Lexus heritage of Takumi craftspeople who are supremely skilled in their roles, Marquis-Larson’s artisanal skills and technology are demonstrated by its masterful boatbuilders, many of whom have been with the company for 30 years.