 SABIE – Protesters are gathered at the gates of the premises and are obstructing people entering or exiting the property. The security members have been stuck on the premises for nearly 24 hours. The men have not been able to get food or refreshments. This is after a four-week protest by the National Union of Metalworkers of SA (Numsa) union members. York Timbers had obtained a court interdict against the strike two weeks ago, making it illegal for them to protest and obstruct others from going to work and back. Police spokesman Brig Leonard Hlathi said SAPS are monitoring the situation after a clash between protesters and Phoenix Security occurred this morning. This left four people injured after security members shot at the crowd. “We are investigating if they used live rounds or rubber bullets.” ALSO READ: York begins disciplinary proceedings following unprotected strikes “We cannot just respond because people tell us to. We must wait and see if anyone breaks the law. We are not employed as personal bodyguards, we are here to keep the peace. “We do not want to aggravate a situation and have another Marikana on our hands.” Hlathi said the police were also investigating a case of attempted murder. “We have opened a case against some members of the security company.” Phoenix Security owner Jandre Stander said they have not had proper support and backup from police. “My men had to defend themselves when the crowd threw rocks and shot ball bearings at them with slingshots. They only have rubber bullets on them.” He said the men together with some staff members are stuck at York Timbers like a hostage situation, and police were not assisting them. “Our men caught on video that evening how the police had parked their vans far away from the protesters and when they started getting violent, you can see them driving away.” In response, Hlathi said the vehicles on the video could not be identified as police ones. “If the security company has a problem with how the SAPS are handling the situation, they can lodge a formal complaint,” he said. He added that police and security had always worked well together. Last week York Timbers began instituting disciplinary proceedings against members of Numsa, who had been disrupting the company’s operations and participating in unprotected strikes characterised by violence, intimidation and damage to property. WATCH VIDEO HERE AND LISTEN TO THE CALLS BETWEEN SECURITY AND LOCAL POLICE: 