 BARBERTON – The hearing of the two men accused of raping Nosipho Angel Nkosi (16) was postponed yesterday, after the legal representative of one of the suspects withdrew at the last minute. Advocate Innocent Nkosi told Magistrate Miriam Mabetwa that, given the circumstances of the case, he will be no longer legally represent Nathi Mavuso (24). Mavuso and Moses Fakudze (20) face a charge rape. Prior to their appearance in the Barberton Magistrate’s Court on Monday, a large crowd gathered, objecting to the possibility that they be granted bail. Fakudze was arrested last Thursday. Mavuso was arrested on Saturday September 1. According to the investigating officer Sgt Stanford Gumede, Mavuso was the victim’s boyfriend while Fakudze was his neighbour. He said on the night they had gone out to drink in one of the local taverns. He said when they returned home, they allegedly raped and murdered Nkosi. “A rape kit was obtained and the clothes that the suspects were wearing on that day were confiscated by the police and have since been sent to Pretoria for forensic tests. Their clothes were found with blood stains,” said Gumede. Read More: Rape and murder case postponed Prosecutor Emanuel Makhubela stated told the court that the duo may possibly also be charged with murder. The suspects briefly appeared in court on Monday after Nkosi withdrew. Mabetwa postponed the case to October 1, to allow Mavuso to obtain another legal representative. Fakudze has opted to apply for a state lawyer. Outside the court, hundreds of community members, mostly school pupils, arrived to follow the case.
Barberton Department of Education circuit manager, Thoko Khoza, who was also present in the court, said schooling was affected in three secondary schools (Kamhola, Emjindini and Barberton) after Nkosi’s colleagues pledged to support her. “The grade 12s are in class as they are writing preliminary examinations, but the other grades decided to come here and support Nkosi’s family. In Nkosi, a young life was wasted,” said Khoza. Siyabonga Malandule, Ancyl secretary for the Ehlanzeni region, applauded Nkosi for withdrawing from representing Mavuso. “He is a progressive attorney. He should be applauded for withdrawing from the case. He indicated that he can’t represent murderers and rapists. We will approach any attorney that will come and want to represent Mavuso to withdraw. Rapists and murderers should rot in prison,” added Malandule.