Win a Home, South Africa’s premier interior design reality TV competition is back for its fifth season, proudly brought to you by Capitec Bank and Private Property, and starts Thursday, 20 September on SABC 3 at 19:30. This year’s grand prize is a fully decorated penthouse apartment at Paardevlei Lifestyle Estate by Balwin Properties, valued at more than R3 Million. In line with the previous season, Win a Home 2018 will revive the Design Duo format, where three teams will compete for the title as South Africa’s best emerging interior designers. Team Contrast Control: Having met at design college, Kehumile Mate and Nicholas Smit have always been eager to join creative forces. Kehumile has worked as an interior designer at DHK for 2 years, but quit his job to tackle the Win a Home Design Challenge. “I left the office-interior design industry to make a mark in the residential design-scape so ‘150 % or nothing’ is the mantra.’’ Nicholas Smit left a BCom Financial Management degree to pursue interior design and has since spent 2 years working at ARRCC Interior Design Firm. ‘’I am incredibly honoured to be a part of this opportunity to push local design and collaborate with young creatives.’’ Team R&K: Rekopile Belebesi and Koketso Marole met at the Design Joburg Expo in 2018 and sparked an instant connection. Koketso relocated to Cape Town after completing her B-Tech in interior design at the Tshwane University Of Technology. “Simplicity is my everyday aesthetic, but it’s the significance in the simplicity that brings my designs to life.” Rekopile started her own furniture design company; Belebesi Décor, when she identified a gap in the market. ‘’Being given an opportunity to express my creative license on a platform as great as Win a Home is amazing! It’s the universe saying you’re on the right path!” Team Perma Peeps: Melissa Oosthuizen and Sinead Turner met 7 years ago when they studied together at Greenside Design Centre. Melissa founded East Haus Interior Design and Custom Furniture, and she’s always up for a creative challenge. “It’s an incredible experience being able to partake in the Win a Home Design Challenge.” Sinead gained hands-on experience by working on projects such as The Woman’s Jail at the Constitutional Court in Johannesburg. “I am excited to showcase my design flair while also creating awareness about alternative design and the importance of local sourcing.” The three Design Duos will battle it out for the Judges Choice and Viewer’s Choice Prize. A panel of expert judges will decide on a winning design duo for the R100 000 cash prize. In addition, viewers will vote online on the Private Property website for their favourite Design Duo’s apartment. The Duo with the most accumulated votes will win R20 000. By voting, viewers stand a chance to win amazing weekly prizes and will be entered in the grand prize draw, a three bedroom penthouse apartment at Balwin Properties’ Paardevlei Lifestyle Estate in Somerset West.