Heart Health Awareness Month, celebrated annually in September, is dedicated to raising awareness about cardiovascular disease in South Africa and culminates on World Heart Day on the 29th of September. Heart Awareness Month has long been a platform for raising awareness about heart disease and highlighting the importance of a healthy lifestyle and appropriate treatment. Your wellbeing is a priority at Mopani Pharmacy, they aim to help strengthen public awareness and their customers’ hearts. We live rushed lives and our wellbeing takes a back seat to our daily routine. We don’t have time to prepare healthy meals and we ignore risk symptoms, even those associated with heart disease. As a pharmacist, I can testify to seeing an alarming number of patients daily with either an expired prescription, uncollected repeats of cardiovascular medication and simply patients who try to reduce medical expenses. In reality there are many articles and campaigns on being healthy but we would like to not only promote heart health this month but to encourage and assist our community in knowing their health status and living a quality life without everyday hassles. In co-operation with South Africa’s leading cardiovascular generic medication provider, Pharma Dynamics, we would like to show patients how to look after their hearts in the easiest possible way. We need to create awareness not only of heart disease but the related health risks and how to possibly prevent it. Having an imbalanced lifestyle, being stressed, not getting enough nutrients and even not taking medication correctly; are all factors contributing to a decrease in health.  First, family history Diabetes, high or low blood pressure and past cardiovascular disease all have a risk since some of these could be inherited. Second, your current health If we have underlying conditions already, we need to focus on how to keep it under control at all times. When you have high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease or cardiomyopathy; you could experience various symptoms such as: possible nausea, irregular sweating, chest pains, shortness of breath and dizziness. Lastly, your lifestyle Lastly, we need to look at our lifestyle. Identifying all possible factors that could lead to a decrease in heart health is imperative. Heart diseases are commonly caused by poor lifestyle choices and typically not knowing whether you are at risk.  Ways to ensure that you take good care of your heart  Invest in regular blood pressure, blood glucose and body mass index screenings. The Wellness Clinics at Mopani Pharmacy offer these services in-store, which are available at Crossing Centre 013 755 5500, I’langa Mall 013 742  2225 and White River 013 751 2267. No appointments necessary, simply walk-in. Our website’s Heart Health section is dedicated to ‘heart smart’ products on promotion this September; everything from Omega-3 supplements to Nature’s Choice Natural Honey. 