 16:41 UPDATE – The Mpumalanga Community Safety, Security and Liaison department issued a media report regarding the situation in Machadadorp.  The MEC Pat Ngomane  welcomed the arrest of the two men who appeared on video dragging a man to their bakkie. Department spokesman Joseph Mabuza said this  incident apparently happened recently when the men demonstrated acts of violence and vigilantism. “The men are alleged to be members of a local security group in Machadodorp. The implicated members were viewed on a video recording that has gone viral, dragging a community member who is alleged to be employed by one of the local shops in the area.” The man was then loaded into an open bakkie in full view of community members who could be heard in the background hurling insults at the members. According to the MEC, this incident depicted the worst form of barbarism, which should not be tolerated regardless of how strong individuals feel about any wrong doing. “Whilst we acknowledge that crime remains a serious challenge which affects many communities, we believe that community members must report crime and work with the police. We therefore encourage community members to refrain from taking the law into their own hands,” said Ngomane. Ngomane said he does not believe that the people captured on the video belong to any CPF structure or a security company, as most organized structures and credible security companies know how to deal with people including crime suspects. He explained that the role of the members of the CPF is to assist the police in the fight against crime and also to assist in strengthen police and community relationship. Ngomane has therefore ordered the police to conduct a thorough probe in order for the suspects to be speedily prosecuted, stating that such incidences have the potential of flaring up unnecessary racial tensions and also inciting violence. He has also called on the community members who have witnessed the incident to come forward and assist the police to finalise the case urgently. Ngomane says there should be no attack on one another on the basis of skin colour and hatred as encouraged by some people on social media. He says community members should strive to live together in peace irrespective of their differences. He has also appealed to the Department of Justice to ensure that once the wrong doers are convicted, they should give them a jail term as this would clearly demonstrate government’s zero tolerance towards vigilantism. Ngomane has also condemned the public violence that led to the burning of properties in the area. He asked the community members to restrain themselves and wait for authorities to intervene before thinking about taking the law into their own hands. 16:09 Colonel Bhembe of the Machadodorp police station explains the details surrounding the volatile situation. 