 WHITE RIVER – Alleged rhino poaching kingpins, Petros Sidney Mabuza and Joseph Nyalunga, have a long history with the law. Dubbed “Mr Big” and “Big Joe”, several cases and investigations related to poaching and theft have been opened against them. Nyalunga, a former policeman, was first arrested in December 2011 after the police confiscated items that were allegedly obtained through proceeds gained from rhino poaching. These items were supposedly worth more than R8 million. He was released on bail of R30 000 in March 2013. Since then the case has been postponed more than 10 times and a trial has yet to begin. ALSO READ: POACHING SYNDICATES: VIDEO: Seven arrested in 123-man operation Mabuza’s collision with the law has been more recent. He was arrested in June this year when he allegedly transacted with undercover police and received two rhino horns. His properties were searched before he was arrested and charged with crimes ranging from rhino horn theft to the illegal possession of rifles and live ammunition. In July he was released on bail of R250 000, with one of the major arguments being that his health was deteriorating. Big Joe leaving the court on Wednesday. A major operation by various members of law enforcement led to the arrest of these two again on Tuesday. They appeared in the White River Magistrate Court on Wednesday, where Mabuza arrived in a wheelchair. They have been charged with the theft of seven white rhino horns that were in the lawful possession of Donald Michael Reginald English and/or the Kruger National Park (SANParks). They were also charged with using a motor vehicle without consent of the owner, fraud, obstruction of justice, possession of unlicensed firearms and being in possession of stolen property – two white rhino horns. ALSO READ: POACHING SYNDICATES: A look inside Big Joe’s multi-million rand homes During their first appearance, the media were prohibited from taking photos in court. Hettie Groenewald, who represents Nyalunga, said that she did not want the case to turn into a “media circus”. Mabuza’s defence, as well as the defence for the other accused, echoed her sentiment. Mr Big leaving the court on Wednesday. Both the state and the defence agreed that the case be postponed to September 27 for possible bail applications.