 She was killed on July 1 in her flat at Macadamia Care Centre. Her body was discovered the following morning on her bathroom floor. The suspects were alleged to have entered the premises by asking for a glass of water. She had been suffocated and her hands were tied behind her back with cellphone cables. The cause of death was determined as suffocation. ALSO READ: Murder accused rearrested for death of two elderly women September 1 The body of a 74-year-old woman was discovered in an old-age home in Alberton. The two suspects allegedly entered the premises on the pretence that they were looking for someone. They asked the woman for a glass of water and gained entry to her home. She was taken to the bedroom, her legs and hands tied with a cellphone cables. A cloth was stuffed down her throat and she was robbed of her cellphone and jewellery. August 20 A 77-year-old Lillas Jane Merry’s body was discovered in the corridor of her flat. Her hands and feet were tied up and a cloth was stuffed down her throat. They had robbed her of her jewellery. June 26 Engela van Wyk (86) was found suffocated in her home at Rus-n-Bietjie Old Age Home in Springs. Witnesses saw two men entering her flatlet. Van Wyk was found in her room with her hands bound to her bed. A cloth was stuffed inside her mouth and another wrapped around it. The flatlet had been ransacked. Her jewellery, rings, cellphone and key were taken. Tenants heard from the others that two men asked to use the bathroom. February 3, 2017 A 79-year-old woman, Pats Truter, was killed in Mookgophong Old Age Home Complex in Limpopo. She was staying alone and her body was discovered the following day when neighbours became suspicious. The body was lying on the floor, covered with a towel and carpet. A preliminary investigation suggested she might have been suffocated. There was no sign of forced entry. 2016 The body of an elderly woman was discovered in her home in Phoenix, Durban. She was suffocated with a cloth, tied up and robbed. December 5, 2015 The body of a 92-year-old woman was discovered on the eighth floor of an old- age home in Sunnyside, Pretoria. She was discovered in her flat, with her hands tied behind her back and a cloth stuffed down her throat, with another wrapped around her mouth. She was found locked in her cupboard and barely alive after two days. The woman died a week later in hospital. Her flat had also been ransacked and some items were stolen. ALSO READ: Multiple murders being investigated with similar modus as Hetta Potgieter’s