Discovery is excited to announce the launch of the new version of Vitality Active Rewards – with new rewards partners, new rewards and much more choice when it comes to rewarding you for hitting your fitness and driving goals. Upgrade to the latest version of the Discovery app by Friday, 5 October 2018 to earn a free play for activating. Spend your Vitality reward points on rewards of your choice each week – including coffees, smoothies, online shopping rewards and charity donations from a range of reward partners. Keen for bigger rewards? Save up your reward points and choose bigger, better rewards. As an existing Vitality Active Rewards member, you’re automatically part of the 10-week Vitality Open. In addition to your guaranteed rewards for achieving your goals, if you reveal a diamond on the gameboard, you will go into a draw to win prizes… for life.  Flights for life, fuel for life, gym, movies, Golden Circle concerts, smoothies, coffees, tyres, Uber, Nando’s, running shoes, HealthyFood and the latest iPhone for life.  For the next 10 weeks, you’ll have access to both fitness and drive goals – even if you’re not a Discovery Insure member. The Vitality Open is available to all South Africans until the end of November 2018. This means that you can get all your friends and family to join the fun, even if they aren’t part of the Discovery family – all they need to do is download the Discovery app and for a limited period of time, they’ll get a small taste of Vitality Active Rewards.  Get active. Drive well. Get rewarded.  The Discovery app is for anyone that has at least one active Discovery product. To use the app, you must be registered on the Discovery website. You will use the same username and password for this app as for the Discovery website. If you are not yet registered on the Discovery website, register now.  Through our smartphone-enabled DQ-Track, which incorporates the Discovery Insure app and our Vitality drive Sensor, Discovery Insure clients get real-time feedback on their driving, amongst other innovative features like ImpactAlert and a Vehicle panic button. Good driving earns fuel rewards – you get up to R800 back every month. HealthID  HealthID is an innovative and free tool to help doctors seamlessly assist their patients during consultations. This app is for practising doctors registered as a Healthcare Professional on the Discovery website. You will use the same username and password for this app as for the Discovery website. If you are not yet registered on the Discovery website, register now.    Discovery Vitality HealthyFood Switch  The Discovery Vitality HealthyFood Switch application that makes choosing healthier foods fast and simple. Scan the barcodes of packaged foods anywhere using the camera on your smartphone. The app then presents immediate, easy-to-understand information about the product’s nutritional make-up while recommending healthier options where available.  