 MBOMBELA – The BosRock audience are in for a treat. If old-school, hard rock from the ’60s to ’80s is your cup of tea, don’t miss it. If you like The Beatles, Chuck Berry, Johnny Cash, The Doors, Bob Dylan, Pink Floyd, Jimi Hendrix, Chris Rea, The Rolling Stones, Neil Young or ZZ Top, BosRock 2018 is tailor-made for you. These will be performed by the famed RIDERS. Mel Botes, Valiant Swart, Piet Botha, Robin Auld and Arthur and Rudolph Dennis from Akkedis will be performing their own songs as well as performing together on stage. The variety, however, does not stop there. The Black Cat Bones, Jonathan Peyper and local rock acts Gibraltar and Goat N Hare will also be performing at BosRock. ALSO SEE: Bosrock Festival – Nelspruit Shaun Brown, dealer principal of Big Five Harley-Davidson, said they just had to get involved with the show to bring two iconic brands together. “The American motorcycle scene and rock music complement one another perfectly,” he said. For Brown, as for most rock lovers, the most exciting prospect about BosRock is the vibe that will be created by the different genres of bands performing. Desmond Cogill, co-owner of Uniwisp, which will be providing free Wi-Fi at the venue during the concert, said they were looking forward to an exciting day of old-school hard rock. “BosRock presents a very special opportunity for talented artists to come and make some incredible rock music together.” Adele van Zyl from Panarottis i’langa, said she is looking forward to the outdoor family day that BosRock promises. “It is exciting to be a part of a first for the Lowveld. We are very involved in the community, but this is something new. It promises something for everyone.” Panarottis will sell pizza, subs and perhaps snack baskets on the day, so you won’t go hungry.  BosRock is brought to you in a partnership between Lowvelder, Mahindra Nelspruit, Storm Produktionz, Panarottis i’langa, AVS Hire, Harley-Davidson Big Five, Moroccan Barber, Nkomazi Fuel, Food Fundi and Uniwisp. On the day concertgoers can also park for free at i’langa Mall on the day to catch a ride with Citybug for R20 to the venue and back. Come and enjoy a day of sunshine and good old fashioned rock music by some of the best local and national rock bands with your family.  Seating tickets start at R150 up to R300. R100 will get you through the door, but please bring your own seating. No own cooler boxes will be allowed inside the venue on the day. Tickets are available from Computicket, all Shoprite and Checkers outlets as well as at the gates on the day. See you at Kwanyoni Lodge on October 6. 