 HAZYVIEW – The special task force did not politely knock. Instead they drove over the gate of the luxurious home of one of the wealthiest alleged criminals in South Africa. In cooperation with the Hawks, the media got an exclusive look into the homes of Joseph Nyalunga, better known as Big Joe, on Wednesday. Officials emptying one of the houses. Absolutely everything was confiscated from all three of his properties. Not a cup was spared in any of the homes, as the sheriff filled multiple trucks.  Nyalunga was taken into custody on Tuesday after a major operation in an effort to stop rhino poaching, not only in the Lowveld but in the whole of South Africa. The second of Nyalunga’s properties. According to Hawks spokesman, Capt Dineo Sekgotodi, it was during the investigation that led to his arrest, they discovered that Nyalungu owes SARS R21 million. They also obtained forfeiture orders for possessions believed to have been obtained in the commission of crimes. Officials emptying one of the houses. Along with the police, the Hawks and customs officials, SARS went to claim back that amount this week. On Tuesday they confiscated the majority of his vehicles and on Wednesday the big job of emptying his houses began. In the presence of heavily armed guards and custom officials with explosive-sniffing dogs, the operation began. The third of Nyalunga’s properties. In a rural area of Hazyview, three of Nyalunga’s mansions are located within a 10-kilometre radius of one another. The first is a double-storey house that is believed to be his personal home. Plasma screen televisions were found in every room, along with fridges filled with expensive meat. Rooms contained high-end leather furniture. One of the many freezers filled with expensive meat. According to officials on the scene, Nyalunga’s wife was present when the cars were confiscated on Tuesday but when the team arrived at the home on Wednesday she and their children were gone. The second home, also registered under Nyalunga’s name, was occupied by his alleged lover. ALSO READ: POACHING SYNDICATES: Big Joe and Mr Big’s run-ins with the law Expensive items found in the last home. She claimed that some of the furniture that was taken belonged to her, but nonetheless it was taken. Officials told her that she was more than welcome to apply for a court order to get her belongings back. The third home was allegedly being renovated to be a guest house. This home was by far the lushest of the lot. It has 23 rooms in total. In the one bedroom, nine plasma screen televisions were found. Some were even stored in the bathroom. In another room four generators and eight air compressors, along with other machinery, were found. These items are earmarked to be sold once the investigation is over. ALSO READ: POACHING SYNDICATES: VIDEO: Seven arrested in 123-man operation 