 MBOMBELA – Jonathan Peyper is geared for BosRock. This concert is unique in that it is aimed at older rockers – but also younger ones. As long as you are mad about rock produced between 1960 and 1980, you are in for a treat on October 6 at Kwanyoni Lodge. The RIDERS, in the form of Mel Botes, Valiant Swart, Piet Botha, Robin Auld and the Akkedis brothers, Arthur and Rudolph Dennis, will headline the concert. SEE MORE: Bosrock Festival – Nelspruit The Black Cat Bones are joining the line-up, and local favourites Gibraltar and Goat N Hare will also do their thing. Mbombela native, Peyper, who is widely considered as one of the best up-and-coming blues musicians on the SA scene, will also showcase his considerable talents. “I am looking forward to BosRock, since it takes place in my hometown,” he told Lowvelder. “It is always great to come and perform for my friends and family and it is a great honour to share the stage with my fellow artists at such a special event.”  Concertgoers can get ready for a proper rock treat with the performers’ own original songs, as well as covers. “To this day artists such as John Mayer, Garry Clark Jnr, Stevie Ray Vaughan, Jimi Hendrix, Slash, Garry Moore, Philip Sayce and Joe Bonamasa have made the biggest impact.” Local names such as Dan Patlansky, Albert Frost and Richard Pryor also made a big impact, Peyper said.  In 2014 he released his self-titled debut album, which hit the internationally renowned Blues Rock Review association. Currently he is working on his second album, Saltation. This is in the production phase with the legend Patlansky as producer. It is set for release next year. ALSO READ: The Black Cat Bones talk BosRock 2018 “Saltation basically means ‘abrupt evolutionary change’ and ‘action of leaping’. The title is very appropriate because this one has an entirely different vibe. “I took a leap of faith in it by selling my car to use the funds for the album. The rest came from the public through a Thundafund project, for which I will be eternally grateful,” Peyper said. BosRock is from 12:00 to late. Mahindra Nelspruit is the main sponsor. Botes’ Storm Produktionz is organising the music. AVS Hire, Harley-Davidson Big Five and Moroccan Barber are on board. Panarottis i’langa will provide the food, and while the venue is beautiful and classy, concertgoers do not need to drive all the way out there. READ MORE: Gibraltar gerat vir BosRock You can park for free at i’langa Mall, and catch a ride with Citybug at R20 per person to Kwanynoni and back when it suits you. Concert tickets cost from R100 to R300 and are available from Computicket. 