 WATERVAL BOVEN – Empowering the youth, showing them their worth and teaching them to be disciplined are the main focus points of the Youth Cadet Corps. This registered NGO operates throughout South Africa and has one of its camps at Elandskrans Resort in Waterval Boven. This resort has been abandoned for years and a recent veld fire caused damage to the property. This group is attempting to repair the damage with the limited resources it has access to. “We are busy with base maintenance. The group started collecting rocks and is using mud as a clay-based ‘cement’ to repair the entrance to the resort,” said corps leader, Walter da Costa e Silva. The cadets fix the entrance to the resort. Bottom: Brinley Jacobs, Comfort Malaza, (middle) Zaheer Andrews, (top) Banele Radebe, Randal Saunders and Morapedi Mokoto. He teaches the youth that no matter what card you are dealt in life, you can handle anything that comes your way. He focuses on basic military training and conservation. ALSO READ: Hunters light up counter-poaching dogs digs “We need to instil patriotism in the youth and teach them to work and fight for what they believe in,” Da Costa e Silva said. The group boasts 15 cadets that range in age from 18 to 22, and includes boys and girls. According to Da Costa e Silva about half the group are volunteers and half are troubled youth who have been sent to them as a part of their rehabilitation. Obakeng Mbelekwane, one of the youth cadets. The cadets worked with the United Nations during the xenophobia attacks of 2016 and are now also going to be a part of a community project in which they want the youth to help expose government corruption, as well as work closely with the police and community policing forum to combat violence in communities. What started as weekend camps has now grown into a social organisation that has been integrated into the community. For more information on programmes, weekend programmes or to donate to the organisation, contact Da Costa e Silva on 081-329-7521. Damages done to the resort by the fire. ALSO READ: The real story behind the alleged racist attacks in Machadodorp