 MBOMBELA – The body of Nation Ntimane (26) was discovered in his neighbour’s yard at around 08:00 by the neighbour’s domestic worker. He had been working in Johannesburg and was supposed to start his new job yesterday. It is believed that he was brutally stabbed to death outside the house in Wallace Street. The area next to the neighbours house where the body of Nation Ntimane was discovered on Monday morning. An eyewitness on the scene said the domestic helper notified the owner of the house, who called an ambulance. ER24 branch manager Kim Habib said her crew responded to the scene. “He had a stab wound to the right side of the chest which must have caused internal bleeding. I suspect he bled out that night.” Blood at the scene where the body of Nation Ntimane was found. Neighbours on the scene said Ntimane had been socialising with the neighbours on Sunday afternoon. “He decided to leave us and go to Lekazi for a party. Afterwards someone saw a black Jeep drop him off at around 22:00,” said a neighbour. The driver of the Jeep and Ntimane were allegedly heard arguing by the neighbours, who also heard a bang. “I was alone last night so I was scared to leave my house to see what was going on. I heard them fighting and someone said Ntimane must get out the car. Then there was a commotion and the Jeep reversed, turned around and left.” A family member of Nation Ntimane getting treated for shock by Emer-G-Med paramedics. On the scene, a blood trail can be seen clearly where Ntimane exited the vehicle, leading straight to where his body was later discovered a few metres away. Richard Ntimane, Nation’s father, and other family members were on the crime scene. Upon seeing the blood trail, his sister collapsed in shock. Emer-G-Med’s Martin Jeffrey said they were called and treated her for shock and were attempting to convince her to go to the hospital where she could receive medication. Richard said it was difficult for the family to see the scene. “It is difficult for us, but later on this will stay in our minds, so we remember this. We must not forget what has happened to him. The police have helped us and are keeping us informed about what is going on,” he said. Police spokesman Col Mtsholi Bhembe said the SAPS were investigating the murder. At the time of going to press no arrests had been made.