 MBOMBELA – Following the rapid rise in price and demand for cryptocurrencies at the end of 2017, the national and international markets have slowed down considerably in the first quarter of 2018.
According to Johan Bezuidenhout of Leetpro, a local cryptocurrency mining business in Mbombela, there has been a decline in the sale of mining rigs which are used to mine a wide variety of cryptocurrencies. “Sales have tapered slightly, but I suspect that the national and international market is behaving in the same way it did in mid-2017,” said Bezuidenhout. This drop in price has affected the sale of specifically cryprotcurrency mining equipment locally, according to Bezuidenhout. Examples of cryptocurrency mining hardware or “rigs”. He added that despite the current slump he suspects that by the end of May prices will begin to rise, which will spark the market into action.
“In my opinion the market grew too fast with demand for mining rigs and bitcoins skyrocketing, and this unprecedented growth destabilised the market,” said Bezuidenhout, adding that he views the current slump as a normalisation of the market. Read also: Bubble or brave new world? Bitcoin breaks $10,000 barrier “The market seems to have normalised a little following the volatility we experienced at the end of December and in early January, but I expect that sales will start to pick up as the price starts rising,” he said. According to Jacques Serfontein of Bitmart, a local business which trades in both cryptocurrency mining equipment and cryptocurrencies, there has been a marked decrease in the demand for mining rigs. Examples of cryptocurrency mining hardware or “rigs”. “We have noticed a decline in the sales of hardware over the past month. I suspect that this is related to the sudden drop in the price of bitcoin and other related cryptocurrencies following the end of 2017’s record high,” he said. Serfontein, however, added that this decline in price, and therefore demand, signals a normalisation of a volatile market. “The way things were going in December 2017 was not sustainable. I think the current gradual increase in the price of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies is far more sustainable,” he said, adding that overall the decline has not impacted negatively on his business. “Although the demand for hardware has decreased slightly, the trade in cryptocurrencies has not been affected as much and I suspect that the current less volatile growth will continue,” he said.  Read also: Tech Thursday: Mining Bitcoin uses as much electricity as 159 individual countries’ annual usage