 MBOMBELA – Parliament has approved a Constitutional Review Committee which invited all stakeholders to make written submission, and request making oral presentations to the committee. DA member of parliament, Ken Robertson, who was recently appointed the shadow minister for rural development and land reform, said it was crucial that all property owners had their say. He explained that all voices would be heard. “We need to safeguard all property rights. It does not speak only to the expropriation of land. “Constitutional amendments will also speak to intellectual property and your mother’s pearls. Of course it will help to write a letter.” “They are taking the public participation process very seriously. “With a bill of this magnitude, to possibly amend the Constitution, the government and ANC realise the significance if it fails.” READ MORE: Land restitution: everything you need to know “The review committee will go through all admissions and all political parties are represented on the panel. All submissions will be looked at so share whatever you think,” Robertson said. The DA argues that the government should look at its own land first to alleviate the pressure. “It is important to understand, before even looking at changing the Constitution, that the state owns large tracks of land. Nationally the government owns 17 million hectares of land that are unutilised. They are not using that. The national Department of Public Works owns 1,9 million hectares that are lying fallow and this is costing taxpayers money to maintain the land. “It is very important that everybody advocates for the Constitution,” he concluded. The closing date for written submissions and requests for oral presentation is May 31. Enquiries and submissions can be addressed to Pat Jayiya, Committee Section, PO Box 15, Cape Town 8000 or emailed to pjayiya@parliament.gov.za or 021-403-3661 or 081-441-0345. Submissions can also be hand-delivered to W/S 091, third floor, 90 Plein Street, Cape Town. ALSO SEE: Government hosts summit to address land issues