 MBOMBELA – Police are investigating how a police officer travelling with a state vehicle got shot and injured in the vicinity of a cash-in-transit (CIT) heist on Tuesday morning. A suspected robber, wearing a police-branded bulletproof vest, was killed during the heist. On the same day, two CIT heists happened in Pretoria, one in Witbank and another in Tzaneen. Also read: BREAKING: R37 blocked by construction truck An AK-47 found at the scene. According to police spokesman Brig Leonard Hlathi, the policeman who was injured is based in Komatipoort with the vehicle identification and safeguarding unit (VIS). Lifemed paramedic, Gertie Greyling said they found the officer lying in the bush. “He said he was on his way to fetch a colleague and then go to work when he drove past the CIT heist. After he was shot and could not drive farther away from the scene, he said he thought the men were following him, so he got out his vehicle and hid in the bush.” Also read: Curro and TRAC give back to the community through wheelchair donation at KaMagugu The SBV van hit by the gang. He was rushed to Mediclinic Nelspruit where he had to undergo surgery. According to police, another motorist passing by was hit in the crossfire and drove himself to hospital for treatment. Police spokesman, Col Mtsholi Bhembe said the gang was made up of about 10 men. “Once the SBV van was stationary, they started shooting at the armoured vehicle, but the security guards fought tooth and nail by firing back at the suspects from inside their vehicle.” The suspects managed to blast the van with the guards still inside it. They gathered an undisclosed amount of cash, at which point the security company’s reaction unit arrived. “The gun battle continued between the guards and the suspects, with one suspect, who was wearing a bulletproof vest believed to belong to the police, being fatally wounded and a police officer injured.” Also read: LVCC defend their knock-out title The rest of the suspects managed to flee the scene with a number of vehicles, including a white BMW X5 with false Limpopo province registration plates, which was later found abandoned not very far from the crime scene. Police arrived quickly and recovered four firearms, namely two AK-47s, an R5 rifle and a 9mm pistol; another bullet-resistant vest, as well as a balaclava. No arrests have been made as yet. According to South African Banking Risk Information Centre (SABRIC) a total of 34 CIT heists have taken place on the country’s roads this year. This is up from nine recorded in the same period of 2017. Cross-pavement heists total 34 for 2018 so far, fewer than the 47 recorded in the same period last year. “SABRIC and the Cash in Transit Industry are working closely with the SAPS in effort to address this scourge,” said SABRIC CEO, Kalyani Pillay.