 MBOMBELA – Beleaguered car salesman Morné Vorster said he has done nothing wrong, despite his recent arrest and numerous criminal complaints against him. Vorster was recently apprehended on charges of malicious damage to property, resisting arrest and assault. Lowvelder investigated and discovered that there have been six fraud and assault cases opened and withdrawn against Vorster since 2011. Police spokesman Col Erhard Stroh said the three cases leading to Vorster’s arrest were withdrawn. “The case of assault and malicious damage to property was withdrawn by the complainant. The case of resisting arrest opened by a police officer was withdrawn by the prosecutor,” he said. National Prosecuting Authority spokesman for the province Monica Nyuswa said the dockets had gone back to the police so it could not comment on the matter. READ MORE HERE: Prepaid electricity in Mbombela: buy smart and save In addition hereto, community members approached Lowvelder with various reports of alleged fraud that have not reached a courtroom. The newspaper relayed the complaints in details, which Vorster repeatedly denied. “I cannot confirm or deny the allegations. I have done nothing wrong, I have never been arrested for fraud and I have never been found guilty in a court of law. If I was guilty, why have I never been arrested for fraud?” Marco Vinhas opened a fraud case against Vorster. Vinhas said he had known him and trusted him to sell his car for the agreed amount of R80 000 on April 6. “I trusted him so I gave him the vehicle.” Vorster told him that it had been sold the same day. “I gave him until Monday. On Tuesday I still had not received the money so I asked him once again where it was.” Vorster told Vinhas that he would get his bookkeeper to make the payment, which never happened on that day. On that following Thursday, a friend of Vinhas saw his vehicle at a local dealership. “I went there and found my car had been sold to them for R60 000 and saw that my signature had been forged on the transfer of ownership form. I went to the police and opened a case against Vorster.” Stroh confirmed that the SAPS were still investigating the matter. Thabo Lushabo said he lived close to Vorster and had wanted him to sell his BMW. “I told him I would only hand my vehicle over to him upon receipt of payment. But we had agreed on an amount under to what my settlement value with the bank was. Vorster told me to put the difference into his account as it would be easier once the sale came through. “I deposited the R33 000 difference into his account.” READ MORE HERE: Bringing back the essence of the Khoisan culture Lushaba said he kept being given excuses as to what was happening with the money as the settlement amount had not been paid into his account. Lushaba went to the police station and opened a case against Vorster. Stroh confirmed that a case had been opened but it had been withdrawn by the prosecutor as it was an alleged breach of contract and was not fit for criminal prosecution. The dealership confirmed that they received R60 000 back from Vorster for the vehicle. Lushaba confirmed with Lowvelder that there was an agreement with Vorster’s family to be paid. But these were not the only people who had dealings with Vorster. Tanya Grobler opened a fraud case with the police last November which was also withdrawn by the prosecutor and labelled a breach of contract. “I knew Morne as my family knew his parents for years, therefore I trusted him and asked him if he could assist in selling my Mazda 2 when I bumped into him in the beginning of July.” She said on August 24 Vorster notified her of a cash buyer and that she would get R122 000 out of the deal as her car was paid off. “I would be able to use that whole amount as deposit on a new car. “The next day he came to get my Mazda 2 to show to the cash buyer, and on the same day said the guy wanted the car right away and that he needed the papers. So obviously as a first-time seller, I trusted him as a friend and gave him the papers and letter to give him permission to assist me in selling my car.” Grobler said she was so excited about the good deal. “After he took my car he needed to remove the tracker that was installed by my insurer, but he could never get hold of the person who needed to do so.” This is where she said she started to become nervous and suspicious. “I had still not gotten my money and then I drove past a woman driving my car. READ MORE HERE : Rangers kill three poaching suspects, injure one and arrest 12 “I asked him about it straight away and he kept on telling me that I have nothing to worry about, and that the whole process is going according to plan. He kept sending pictures of used cars and distracted me with the replacement.” By September 26 she still not received payment from Vorster. “I went to police station to open a case.” Later that day Grobler stated that only a small amount was paid in. “I then decided to warn the public as I realised that he was in the process of doing more ‘business’. I could not keep it to myself. I put a post on Facebook on November 15 warning the public. “The next day the biggest payment came in and the day after another very small amount. The total was now only R85 000.” Grobler said she has since never received the full R122 000 agreed upon by Vorster. In 2012, Leonie Human took civil action against Vorster after she did business with him. Human wanted to sell her vehicle to pay for the bond registration for a house she was buying. “I advertised my vehicle on Facebook. Vorster saw it as I knew him from school so we were Facebook friends.” She said when he contacted her, she was positive as she knew his family and they were good people. “In the end everything blew up in my face… After months I finally got my share paid over a period of time, but the damage was done as I needed the money to cover attorney costs and bond registration.” Evenska Esterhuizen said in 2014 when her four-year-old son had cancer, Vorster approached her to sell her Golf. “It actually was in my father’s name. He kept making excuses and saying he was still looking for another car for us. In the meantime I had to get my son to have his chemo done so I was becoming frantic. Morne then organised a vehicle for me to drive around in. Later on I found out the owner who was in Kuruman was not even aware I was using it.” She said she also found out that he had sold her Golf in the meantime. “How he did this without my father signing transfer of ownership, we don’t know.” She said Vorster paid her R30 000 but had still not paid her the outstanding R5 000. Vorster maintained his innocence pertaining to all the allegations and stated he has no reason to leave the city as he has done nothing wrong.