 MBOMBELA – Dean Alberts is embarking on an international modelling career. The past few months have been a roller coaster ride. Lowvelder reported in September how his career was taking off with him walking the catwalk at the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week in Johannesburg. READ MORE: Model determined to strut and succeed Last year he was signed by Boss Models. In the latter part of the year they placed him in Cape Town for three months. “It is the best place to build up a portfolio,” says Candice Patterson, Alberts’ modelling coach at MasterModels Nelspruit. In Cape Town he landed his first international job: a shoot for U.S. Polo Assn.  It was also in Cape Town that a scout for Ace Models International Management Agency noticed him.  Now he will soon be off to South Korea for at least three months. He will be staying in a model house (an item on his bucket list) in Seoul. The agency signs only five international models at a time. They pay for everything, and once you start working you pay them back. Should you not achieve the work targets you get sent home after three months, and they write off the loss. “They must really believe in someone to do that,” Patterson says.  All this happened less than a full year since Alberts’ first photo shoot. Patterson, Alberts and four other models from MasterModels Nelspruit travelled to a modelling convention in Florida in December. “To educate ourselves on the international industry,” Patterson states. Unlike his travel companions who were granted 10-year visas, Alberts only got a one-month visa, being a high risk – a young African man with no full-time job. He aims to change all that.  It is hard work to adhere to the strict measurements required by the industry, but he is not afraid to put in the effort. “Work becomes a lifestyle: eating and exercising is all about how you look,” Alberts says. He is not allowed to get tanned, and if you pick up or lose a few kilograms you get 10 days to change it or they send you home. “Being judged is part of the job.” Yet Alberts loves every second of modelling and is determined to make a success of this opportunity. He is ready, for the language (he already has a translation app on his phone) and the hard work. “I like surprising people,” he adds. He concludes by giving all the honour for his accomplishments to the Lord. “I would not have been able to achieve anything without Him.” ALSO SEE: First ever CANSA Socialite, a night to remember