 NGODWANA – Sappi will soon expand its green footprint by becoming one of only a few companies in SA to embark on a biomass energy project. Sappi Ngodwana’s energy biomass project will play a significant role in South Africa’s renewable energy initiatives. “Sappi is proud to contribute to the increased availability of renewable energy in South Africa,” said Sappi Southern Africa CEO, Alex Thiel. “Sappi will continue to focus on extracting maximum value from the renewable and sustainable wood fibre that we grow. This project builds on our continued investments at Ngodwana Mill.” The benefits of using biomass fuel for electricity generation are that it has a high load factor (in the region of 200 000 megawatt hours per annum), the value chain creates higher employment in operations, it is proven over many years, forestry is not as affected by seasonality and climatic conditions, and the industry can reinvest in raw material supply by replanting trees for future use as an energy source. The project follows the signing of the contract last week that officially made Ngodwana Energy part of the Department of Energy’s renewable energy independent power producer procurement programme. The Ngodwana project will contribute to the growth and development objectives of South Africa, Mpumalanga and the communities and businesses in the vicinity. Given the project’s extensive value chain, the value-add over the term of the power purchase agreement is significant due its positive monetary, job creation and socio-economic impacts. This year Sappi will be investing R1,3 billion in Ngodwana Mill. The Ngodwana energy project will feed electricity into the national grid near its location within Elands Valley, between Waterval Boven and Mbombela. In addition to Sappi Southern Africa and its project partners, AREP and KC Africa, the Ngodwana Energy Employees Trust and Ngodwana Energy Community Trust will each hold a five per cent stake in the project. Globally, Sappi has developed and constructed five hydro, two gas and 31 steam turbines which generate around 800 megawatts of renewable power on 14 sites across seven countries. Only a small number of biomass projects currently operate within the South African renewable energy market and Sappi is pleased to be expanding this green footprint. Also read: New GM takes the helm at Sappi