 This year marks a special year for locals who are into fitness. For the first time in Mbombela’s history, Citybug and Crossfit Nelspruit will bring you The Murph Challenge on April 21 at Hoërskool Bergvlam. The challenge, which first originated in the USA, is held in honour of Lt Michael P Murphy. Murphy was a United States Navy SEAL officer who was awarded the US military’s highest decoration, the Medal of Honor, for his actions during the war in Afghanistan. But here in the Lowveld, the aim is to raise a minimum of R150 000 to build a new classroom at Pro Gratia Learning Centre, following a storm that swept through the school last year. Organiser Ruhan Koekemoer said even though the hardcore category is not for the faint-hearted, as it consists of a 1,6-kilometre run, 100 pull-ups, 200 push-ups, 300 squats and a second 1,6 kilometre, wearing a weighted vest (nine kilograms for men and seven kilograms for women) or body armour, it really is a challenge that anyone can conquer. Koekemoer said it provides an excellent platform to put basic fitness to the test, to experience camaraderie and a get-together to remember. “We chose this format as it offers a unique and exciting challenge to the general public,” he said. The run will take place at Hoërskool Bergvlam, which was the preferred route to ensure safety, and is not too difficult. “At the start of the challenge, all participants need to report to the rig, and the timer will only stop once every member of the team is at the finish,” he said. Anyone over the age of 10 can participate. “If you can walk or jog 1,6 kilometres, in a prone position raise and lower the body using the arms, and can do squats, you are ready. If you struggle, your teammates can help you out with the more strenuous exercises, as long as you run/walk the distance,” he said. The exercise entails the following: • One-hundred pull-ups In a team format, you can divide this workout into any way you wish. “You can decide who does what.” He explains that it does, however, need to be proper pull-ups. Arms need to be straight when hanging, and your chin needs to be above the bar to count as one. Scaled pull-ups will also be accepted, but participants will not be in the running for the prize money. • Two-hundred push-ups This too, can be divided into any way you wish. Full push-ups are required. If your chest does not touch the floor, and arms are not fully extended, it will not count. Scaled push-ups will also be accepted. • Three-hundred squats Again, this can be divided as the above. Athletes need to fully extend the knee and hip, and your hip has to be under your knee after the descent. The male and female winner of the hardcore division, will each receive a R10 000 cash prize and individual winners can each walk away with R2 000. Marthinus de Bruin, from Citybug Nelspruit, urged the public to participate. “Our main aim is to make people aware of Pro Gratia and to help them as much as possible.” Citybug aims to give back to the community by hosting this event annually. To enter and for more information visit citybug.co.za/citybug-challenge-2018.