 MBOMBELA – The City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) is in the process of terminating its contract with Rand Water. “The City of Mbombela owes Rand Water an amount of R68,6 million and its current account is in arrears to the tune of R2,5 million. The outstanding debt and the escalating costs of maintenance and operations services provided to the City of Mbombela undermine Rand Water’s ability to provide a sustainable service,” the statement by Rand Water read. Also read: BREAKING NEWS: Well-known Lowveld pilot dies in accident According to CMLM spokesman Jospeh Ngala, despite the press statement made by Rand Water, the contract has not been terminated. Rather, the two-year contract with the service provider had lapsed. “Rand Water will continue with the service in the interim,” he said. According to the statement released by Rand Water, the termination would have come into effect at the end of December 2017, but CMLM requested an extension by three months to the end of March to allow for a smooth transition. Commenting on how the municipality plans to repay the substantial debt owed to Rand Water, Ngala said a suitable payment plan has been established and accepted by the contractor. DA caucus leader, Steven Schormann said that the opposition has been pushing to have the contract with Rand Water terminated and for Sembcorp Silulumanzi to take over instead. Also read: BREAKING NEWS: Armed robbery at Debonairs Pizza in Mbombela  The private company already handles bulk water in Mbombela, while Rand Water is responsible for the rest of the municipal area. “It’s been a nightmare of accountability, and as far as I know Rand Water has not had a permanent engineer on staff which has led to continued issues of services not being delivered adequately,” he said. Schormann added that, to his knowledge, much of the irregular and wasteful expenditure recorded in the 2016/17 financial year can be attributed to mismanagement of funds allocated to the Rand Water contract. “In light of continued issues regarding the management of the provision of bulk water to the city, we as the opposition are happy to know that there are moves to address the issue and we are positive that the contract is going to be terminated in the near future. The final decision, however, rests with council,” Schormann said. Also read: Man stabbed at Barberton holiday resort On Monday, despite numerous requests for feedback regarding the matter, the municipal manager was not available to comment on the current status of the agreement between Rand Water and CMLM. “A plan will be tabled before council outlining how the process will unfold in due course. The City remains committed to providing these basic services as per its constitutional mandate. Therefore, there should not be any cause for alarm,” Ngala concluded.