 The Easter Extravaganza, part of the Master Show Jumping Series, tested riders’ skills over a variety of tracks this weekend. Also read:  Jessica outjumps her opponents In the four classes organised for each height division, Annemarie Esslinger – an international level 3 course designer and instructor – put participants’ skills to the ultimate test. Some of the tracks were more spread out, others more compressed, and a few involved switchbacks and speed opportunities. “The equipment is brightly painted and sponsored in many different colours, some of which proved a bit more optically challenging for the horses and ponies,” Esslinger explained. The day’s jumping started with a 50- or 60-centimetre competition, and built up through the morning to 1,35 metres – quite an advanced level. It was only contested by Kraai Kamffer’s (owner of Nottinghill) 18-year-old daughter, Hannelize, who is an excellent equestrienne. She is a talented young rider who seemed to be in harmony with all her mounts, and competed in several of the height categories, riding many smooth, flowing and accurate rounds. Kraai Kamffer on Lezar Solero. “It was pleasing to see a number of youngsters and adults in all the divisions being well-instructed, having all the basics well in place and planning good tracks around the courses. I think most of the novice riders were suitably mounted on well-balanced, straightforward schoolmasters – and those are always hard to find; these play an important role in the development of good horsemanship. I also saw some promising young horses and riders, which augurs well for the future of showjumping in Mpumalanga. While the numbers in each class were small, the quality was good, and I felt privileged to be helping everyone to hone their skills.” “Thank you again for inviting me to the lovely Lowveld for the extravaganza. What a pretty property Nottinghill Equestrian Estate is. With its beautiful trees and relaxed atmosphere, everyone was sure to have an enjoyable weekend, myself included. I hope to be back in the not-too-distant future,” Esslinger concluded. Results: Competition: 80/90cm junior and adult Liz-marie Crous – On Angel’s Call Competition 1,00m children Kyra Whyte – Comical Guy Competition 1,00m juniors and adults Francois Combrinck- Brandenburg Satisfaction Competition 1,10-1,35m juniors and adults Kraai Kamffer – Lezar Solero Speed competition 1,10-1,35m juniors and adults Kraai Kamffer – Lezar Solero Speed competition 1,00m juniors and adults Benjamin Heynecke – Varlet Umfolozi Speed competition 1,00m children Megan Seyfarth – Validation Speed competition 90cm juniors and adults Kayla Hugo – Slew the Bold Competition 1,00m juniors and adults Francois Combrinck – Brandenburg Satisfaction Competition 1,10m-1,35 juniors and adults Hannelize Kamffer – Shadow Fly Accumulator 1,10m-1,35 juniors and adults Anisca Smit – Rockey’s Rival Pride Accumulator 1,00m juniors and adults Francois Combrinck – Branden-burg Satisfaction Accumu-lator 1,00m children Kyra Whyte – Comical Guy.