 MALALANE – On Sunday morning, the SAPS found a rhino horn hidden in a vehicle’s boot during a roadblock at the Coopersdal turn-off. The four occupants explained that they had picked it up near Matsulu for someone, and were supposed to take it to Mozambique. The suspects were arrested, denied bail and will appear in the Komatipoort Magistrate’s Court on April 14. Also read: Local businesses band together to help Capetonians Tonga police are still investigating two cases of robbery involving the same family that took place within 24 hours. Last Thursday a filling station in Mzinti was burgled by about six armed men around 05:30. According to Capt Magonseni Nkosi, they blew up the drop-in safe and fled with cash and cigarettes. No one was injured. At about 01:30, suspects broke into the house of the garage owner and demanded the occupants give them cellphones and money. Also read: Curro and TRAC give back to the community through wheelchair donation at KaMagugu They did not have enough cash to please the robbers, but two cellphones, an iPad and laptop were stolen. Nkosi said the police were notified and neighbours tried to assist, which scared off the suspects. He commended the police on their speedy action in both cases and said investigations are ongoing. Last Wednesday morning the White River K9 Unit discovered heroin hidden in a bakkie at Kaapmuiden. Police stopped the vehicle during a routine search operation and after being alerted by the dogs, found R45 million worth of heroin hidden under the base of the bakkie in a false compartment. Two suspects were arrested on charges of possession and dealing in illegal drugs. Also read: BREAKING: R37 blocked by construction truck Early the same day, police at the Lebombo Border Post found 2 609 pairs of counterfeit shoes in a truck heading from Mozambique to Gauteng. The loot, worth around R1,5 million, was handed over to SARS customs officials.The driver managed to flee the scene while police were busy searching the truck.