 A former employee at the Independent Police Investigation Directorate (Ipid) appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on charges of fraud on Tuesday. This is following his arrest by the Hawks’ Serious Corruption Investigating Unit on the same day. During 2014 Jabu Elkum Ngwenyama allegedly deceived his employer by submitting fraudulent travel claims with regard to official trips. Ipid lost just over R20 000 from the inaccurate number of kilometres indicated and thus refunded for. Ngwenyama was granted R3 000 bail and is expected to make a follow-up court appearance on May 24. Jabu Elkum Ngwenyama. Councillor for the City of Mbombela Local Municipality, Mandla Mamba will appear in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on July 18 for trial. Mamba and his co-accused, Sihle Nkambule, Sabelo Mlotshwa, Themba Mwali and Gift Mnisi, were arrested on September 10, 2016. They were charged with setting alight the house of a murder suspect. While firefighters were extinguishing the blaze, it is alleged that Mamba and his co-accused attacked them and robbed one firefighter of his firearm. The person whose house was set alight, was arrested along with two others for allegedly killing a man earlier the same day. They were released on bail ranging between R500 and R10 000 on September 13. Among his bail conditions, Mamba was not permitted to participate in any community gatherings and demonstrations or any act of inciting the community. Members of the community recently claimed that they had seen him participating in a recent Fairview Mine protest. He was arrested and charged with contravening his bail conditions, but found not guilty. The murder case is still under way. Mandla Mamba. The two men accused of the murder of Sgt Sthembile Mdluli (37) are expected to appear in the Nelspruit Regional Court on April 11. Moses Sibiya and Richard Shabangu were charged with the police officer’s murder. She was connected to the White River Vehicle Crime Investigation Unit. According to a family member, Oubet Tsela, Mdluli did not know her alleged murderers. Tsela told Lowvelder that Mdluli was lured to a house by a female friend in April last year. This is where Sibiya apparently drugged her and took her to a guest house in KaNyamazane. Moses Sibiya.