 BURGERSFORT – These two heritage interest groups are both registered non-profit organisations. Together with the publicity offered by the local newspaper Steelburger/Lydenburg News, the long-term plan is to develop and promote a proper two-day excursion not only of historic sites, but also of cultural experiences. These will also be promoted to the tourism industry and tour operators and will incorporate local lodges, caterers and cultural dance and handcraft groups. Also read: Local businesses band together to help Capetonians The focus will be on the various cultural groupings among others the Batubatse, as well as the many historical sites in and around the mystic Leolo Mountains in the land of Sekhukhune. These include historic battlefields and fortifications as well as old mining operations, geological sites and places of sacred and cultural value, said Ngwato Mohubane of Bapedi Heritage Development Trust. All interested in local history are welcome to join this self-drive inaugural excursion of discovery on Saturday
April 14, meeting at 07:00 at Tubatse Mall in Burgersfort or to leave from Mbombela with members of Mpumalanga Heritage at 05:00 from Kruger Lowveld Tourism. Also read: LVCC defend their knock-out title Bring along some breakfast for the road, enough water, a picnic lunch, a hat and sun protection, and wear comfortable shoes. Some distance of the road will be gravel, preferably asking for high-ground clearance vehicles. A minimal entrance fee at the gate to Sekhukhune’s Kraal/Tsate Heritage will be charged. Included in the itinerary: the original site of Fort Burgers, the site of the discovery of the first traces of platinum by Merensky in 1924 and the old Berlin mission station of Pastor Winter at Mecklenburg. The highlight of the day will be a midday stop at the heritage site of Sekhukhune’s Kraal, well entrenched in the Tsate Valley in the heart of the Leolo Mountains where the bloody battle in 1879 ended the Second War of Sekhukhune between the English and the Pedi. Also on the tour plan is the site of Fort Weeber closer to Jane Furse and a visit to the sacred grave of Manche Masemola (1913-1928), a young South African Christian martyr and one of few hailing from the twentieth century. Also read: Curro and TRAC give back to the community through wheelchair donation at KaMagugu The heritage tourism potential of this area is immense, Marius Bakkes of Mpumalanga Heritage stated. Linking this itinerary to the Voortrekker history of Ohrigstad and the old trade routes and wagon trails passing here on their way from the ancient copper fields of Monomotapa to the African east coast, incorporating the rich stone and iron-age archaeological sites around the Echo Caves and closer to Lydenburg. Combined with the well-preserved gold rush town of Pilgrim’s Rest and the many relics and sites dating from the Anglo-Boer War together with the rich architectural heritage of Lydenburg, this has the potential to be developed into a spell-bounding tourism destination with a fascinating itinerary lasting much longer than a mere day or two. The area also offers exquisite scenery, good climate together with a selection of accommodation and comfortable resorts catering for most needs and pockets. Contact Jan Minnaar of Mpumalanga Heritage at 083-279-5579 if you have space in your vehicle or would like to find a seat. To join Mpumalanga Heritage, contact Linda Grimbeeck at Kruger Lowveld Tourism at linda@lcbt.co.za or 013-755-1988. Membership is R150 per year. This includes 10 monthly historical excursions per year free of charge as well as a regular newsletter.