 SKUKUZA – The ink was barely dry on the pledge against poaching presented to South African National Parks (SANParks) staff members last week, when at least one person with ties to the park was arrested. Twelve poachers were arrested in three operations since last Friday. One of these was a SAPS member based at Skukuza Police Station. Three poachers were killed during the operations. KNP managing executive Glenn Phillips addresses staff during the pledging ceremony. The Health and Other Services Personnel Trade Union of South Africa (Hospersa), the National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu), SAPS, South African Defence Force, SANParks Honorary Rangers and the media took part in the anti-poaching pledge event. While staff members signed the pledge, rangers were in the veld. They arrested three suspects in possession of a heavy-calibre rifle, ammunition, poaching equipment and a fresh set of rhino horns. One of those suspects has since been identified as a recently retired Frelimo commander who was in full camouflage uniform when apprehended. The next day two more arrests were made when three suspected rhino poachers were tracked down by rangers and the K9 team. A heavy-calibre hunting rifle, ammunition and poaching equipment were seized. On the same day rangers arrested two additional suspects, of which one was fatally wounded during the armed engagement. On Sunday April 22, after detecting poacher activity, rangers conducted follow-up operations and made contact with two suspected poachers. One of them was fatally wounded during the contact and the other was wounded and arrested. A heavy-calibre hunting rifle, ammunition, poaching equipment and two fresh rhino horns were recovered at the scene. Almost at the same time rangers made contact with another group of three suspected poachers. In the ensuing armed engagement one was fatally wounded. The other two managed to escape. A hunting rifle, poaching equipment and ammunition were recovered at the scene. The SAPS member was arrested on suspicion of being involved in rhino poaching and is in custody. Reacting to these arrests, the managing executive of Kruger National Park, Glenn Phillips lauded the dedicated teams of rangers which face this kind of pressure every day and continue to disrupt suspected poachers activities. The pledge against poaching was presented to staff by the chief operating officer of SANParks, Lize McCourt, on behalf of SANParks board and management. The pledge is meant to urge SANParks staff members to place honesty high on the list of their core values, and is fully backed by two existing trade unions at SANParks. “With the complete support of the two trade unions, we need to continue to encourage our staff members to live up to their own standards of truthfulness and not compromise their integrity. This pledge will hopefully encourage more people to refrain from wildlife crime and the killing of species found in our national parks. This pledge will be hung in one of our foyers and must serve as a reminder that we have committed ourselves to fighting rhino poaching and wildlife crime in general,” said McCourt.