 MBOMBELA – Some residents are fuming after they learned with a shock that the value of their properties has increased – in some cases by almost 50 per cent. The valuation roll for the period July 1, 2018 to June 30, 2023 has been made public and the CMLM encourages residents to inspect the document to ascertain the current value of their properties as designated by municipal valuer, Nkosinathi Mavundla. According to Linda Grimbeeck, chief operating officer of Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism, the valuation roll, which is updated every four years, is based on a bulk valuation of all properties that fall within CMLM. Also read: Get rewarded for solving these clues “The valuations are determined through a series of formulas. CMLM despite their best efforts do at times make mistakes, but when they do, fully acknowledge these errors. Therefore it’s important that people access the document so that they can raise any issues of concerns with the municipality,” said Grimbeeck. According to Christof Brink, manager at Seeff Nelspruit, the process followed by CMLM when conducting property valuations rests on a general valuation of properties which fall in predetermined areas. “Areas within the municipality are identified and grouped. Then the municipal valuer conducts his valuation by using the average plot sizes of the properties in the specific area, to work out an average rate for all properties in said area,” said Brink. This average is then used to determine the percentage increase in rates and taxes owed to CMLM by the owner of the property. “Essentially the size of the stand determines the value in relation to the other properties in the area. So if you have a large home on a large stand the value thereof will be high, and correspondingly the chances are that your rates and taxes will increase,” he added. Also read: Murph challenge not only for contestants In some instances this process may lead to the overvaluation of properties and therefore a disproportionate increase in the rates and taxes charged by the CMLM, according to Brink. “Although this method is used, it is not necessarily fail safe and it therefore is important the residents access the roll to ensure that they are aware of the municipal value of their properties and expected increase in rates and taxes,” he added. According to Brink, it however remains important to keep in mind that the municipal valuation roll and the stated value of any property does not necessarily correspond to the property market which is governed by the principle of willing buyer and willing seller. “The value of any property on the roll does not determine the asking or selling price of properties. If you property is valued at R1 million on the roll it does not mean that that is the market value of the property,” Brink said. The valuation roll is available on the CMLM website as well as at the rates hall at the municipality. Also read: This year’s air show ‘will rock you’ Grimbeeck added that any person with queries or comments regarding the current valuation of the property and corresponding rates and taxes, should either visit the CMLM website to access the four-page document to lodge an official objection which must be submitted at CMLM rates hall for processing. “There is a formal appeals process which needs to be followed and in the event that it is found that the valuation is incorrect the municipality will amend the information and therefore reduce the rates and taxes charged to the owner of the property,” said Grimbeeck who added that residents should embrace the opportunity to engage CMLM on the matter. To access the valuation roll and objection forms, visit www.mbombela.gov.org.