 BARBERTON – Following the tragic loss of three lives in February 2016, the Lily and Barbrook mines are set to resume operations following a R190 million cash injection. This follows the approval of a loan facility made to SSC Flaming Silver SPV by the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) in November 2017. The company had entered into an agreement with Vantage Goldfields SA (VGSA) to acquire their 74 per cent shareholding in Vantage Goldfields (VGL), which together with Lomshiyo Investments owns the Lily and Barbrook mines near Barberton. Also read: BREAKING: Suspect wearing police vest shot dead at CIT heist According to Mike McChesney CEO of Lily Mine, VGSA acknowledged the announcement by SSC Flaming Silver that they have secured a loan of R190 million from IDC to reopen Lily and Barbrook. However, pending the final confirmation and proof of the balance of funding, no operations are set to resume at the mines. Also read: VIDEO: Hungry Hippo wants to eat with lions  “Once the money is received and the creditors of the companies in business rescue have been consulted, the proposed transaction may be finalised,” McChesney explained. He was not able to comment on the current plans in place to retrieve the bodies of three Lily Mine employees who were trapped when a crown pillar collapsed during the Lily Mine disaster on February 5, 2016. “The SSC Group has been involved in the business rescue process of these operations for an extended period during which time SSC management became acutely aware of the situation and the challenges faced, as well as the failed attempts that the shareholders of Vantage experienced in taking the company out of business rescue. This investment is an important development for SSC Group in establishing itself as a mining company and will provide much-needed support to the Mpumalanga local economy at an extremely difficult time, reinforcing our commitment to sustain and grow our investments in this country,” said Fred Arendse, CEO of SSC Flaming Silver, a new generation level-one empowerment company with more than 50 per cent black women ownership. Also read: Court updates for the week “VGSA remains committed to working with all parties concerned to bring the outstanding matters to a speedy and satisfactory conclusion,” concluded McChesney.