 MBOMBELA – The event, White River Rotary Club’s brainchild, is held for children who have cancer. Camp Quality started with a bang as the brave children from the oncology units at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital and Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital petted snakes and had elephant encounters, among other fun-filled activities over an exciting six days. Club secretary Liz Mackintosh said the camp is one of their main projects. “We wanted to give the children the holiday of a lifetime. They’ve been through a lot in their lives, so we wanted to make them feel loved. Each child was given a friend to ensure their safety, and a doctor and full nursing staff were on standby to help them take their medication,” said Mackintosh. Itumeleng Khasu. There were over 20 volunteers at the camp, most of whom were from Uplands College while others were university students. “We appreciate their help. They gave up the school holidays and decided to come here and help these children,” she said. READ: A quality camp full of fun and adventure On Saturday the children were taken to the Old Nelspruit Airfield for 10-minute flights in light aircraft, which brought huge smiles to their faces. They were then taken to the Mafunyane Water Park for swimming and water slides. Emnotweni arranged a medic who stayed with the children at all times, on the bus and during the camp. It further assisted with a vehicle and driver to help with transportation. Water was provided for all the excursions and all the kids were kitted out with caps. This unforgettable experience ended with a farewell dinner sponsored by Emnotweni. READ: Pollution affects the Olifants River in Kruger National Park Volunteers from nearby schools who sacrificed their school break to assist during the camp’s excursions were each rewarded with a ticket to movies@Emnotweni.
“Several staff members also volunteered their time, and I don’t know who had more fun, us or the kids,” said Emnotweni general manager, Adam MacIntyre. Kids on their way to have fun. “In all seriousness though, we were inspired by their bravery and are reminded that life should be enjoyed to the fullest. Camp Quality is one of several projects that we have enjoyed being part of in the 21 years that we have been operating in Mbombela and it is an important part of fulfilling our commitment to giving back to – and making a difference in – the community.”