 MBOMBELA – Given Senzo Lekhuleni (22) was exposed as a rapist and a liar in the Nelspruit Regional Court on Thursday. After violating a 40-year-old woman at knifepoint on April 18, 2016 he lied about it in court, claiming that the sex had been consensual. “His improbable version is inconsistent with reality,” said the magistrate, Venessa Joubert, while considering the facts that had led to his conviction. The rape occurred at 10:30 that Monday morning. The victim was a petite woman. She was wearing an equestrian riding outfit. The woman had been walking along the Curlews road towards a convenience store adjacent to a fuel station, to buy bread and milk. She walked passed Lekhuleni, greeting him. As she crossed the road in the direction of the filling station, Lekhuleni grabbed her ponytail from behind and pressed a 22-centimetre knife against her throat. He pushed her into the bush and forcefully led her towards a nearby donga. The victim did not have much on her – only a cellphone and R45 to cover her planned purchase. “What do you want?” she asked, bewildered. “This,” he replied, pointing toward her private parts with the blade of the knife. He placed it against her neck and ordered her to pull off her trousers. Lekhuleni did the same. He raped her before taking her R45.
He tossed aside her cellphone, which the woman used to dial CPF chairman, Ross Harris. She reported the rape to Harris, who informed the police and local security companies. A manhunt ensued and Lekhuleni was arrested about 45 minutes later. Although he had changed clothes, the outfit he had worn while committing the crime was found in his backpack. During his testimony Lekhuleni recalled seeing fear in his victim’s eyes. Nonetheless, he would maintain that what followed was consensual sex. Faced with the emotional, yet coherent testimony of a rape victim whose allegations had been medically corroborated, Joubert discarded Lekhuleni’s version of events. The victim was not present on Thursday. While hearing the court accept the victim’s version above his own, Lekhuleni repeatedly shook his head. Joubert explained that he was guilty of rape and of robbery with aggravating circumstances.*
The minimum sentences prescribed by legislation are 10 years for the rape count and 15 years on the count of assault. Pre-sentencing procedures were scheduled for Monday. At the time of going to press, his sentence had not yet been confirmed. Also read: Updated: Community ‘saves the magic’ at Phabeni State Capture 2/3: Family loses millions after refusing to sell State Capture 3/3: Relentless pressure capturers’ chief tactic 