 MBOMBELA – At least 848 motorists were apprehended in Mpumalanga since the beginning of December to date for various traffic violations during law-enforcement operations in the province. According to the Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison spokesman, Joseph Mabuza, 464 of the motorists were arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol, 122 for exceeding speed limits, 116 for reckless and negligent driving, while others were apprehended for different violations such as overloading and driving with false documentation. ALSO READ: Lowveld roads rife with accidents MEC Pat Ngomane commended the traffic officials for their sterling job, saying the continuous efforts by the department and other stakeholders regarding road safety will eventually yield success. A total of 37 385 fines was also issued to motorists for exceeding the speed limit, overtaking on barrier lines, violating road traffic signs, stopping on freeways, using cellphones while driving and overloading. “Traffic officers also issued fines to at least 56 passengers for not wearing seatbelts,”said Mabuza. Other fines were issued to motorists for driving vehicles with defects such as cracked windscreens, broken windscreen wipers, worn out tyres, and malfunctioning direction indicators and lamps. Ngomane said although there had been a success when it came to law enforcement, the increase of road accidents remained a concern as there are were innocent lives that were lost on the road. ALSO READ: Three major car accidents claim a total of 11 lives “We need to focus more on awareness campaigns and education, because we have seen that most accidents are caused by human error which is a result of behaviour. As much as we want to prosecute those who continue to disobey the rules of the road, we need to continue instilling good driver behaviour on them through education,”said Ngomane. “This is where churches, traditional leaders, community organisations and other government and non-governmental structures come in; because we cannot win this scourge of road carnage on our own,” he said. Since the beginning of December, over 750 road crashes were recorded and over 150 lives were lost. There is, however, a decline of 11,3 per cent on fatalities as compared to the previous year during the same period. The N4 recorded most of the crashes followed by the R40 and R573. Other roads included the N2, R538, N11, R38, N12 and R555. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Five males killed in head-on collision on the N4 Ngomane believed and maintained that most crashes are caused by speeding, dangerous overtaking, and reckless driving among others. He said those found guilty must be prosecuted and given harsh sentences to send a strong message to other wrongdoers. He further said traffic officers will continue to work extremely hard to make sure that Mpumalanga has the safest roads.