 SCHAGEN – Anke and Justin Swart are still hopeful for the country’s bright future after being attacked by intruders in the early hours of Friday. Anke has suffered blows, has stitches and will see a dentist for her two broken teeth, but says, “Our hearts go out to the almost countless victims who are so much less fortunate in our country every day.” The Swarts work at Healing Wings Rehabilitation Centre. They live in a cottage on the premises with their three young daughters; aged nine, six and five. They were woken up by their dog incessantly barking at around 01:45. “We had just had the veld mowed, and we thought that a small deer or mongooses could have been causing the fuss,” said Anke. “My husband tried calming the dog from inside the house a few times, before going outside to the stoep where it sleeps to calm it down.” By his third attempt to calm the dog, Anke followed her husband outside. They were met by three men.  “We have no lights outside and it was terribly dark, so we could not see.” The men assured them that they would not hurt them if they remained quiet. However, unable to contain herself, Anke grabbed the nearest jar and smashed it onto one of the intruder’s heads. During the commotion, another suspect managed to enter the cottage and tie her husband up in their bedroom. Anke continued to fight the men by hitting one of them with a chair. “Although not conversant in siSwati, I follow it well. At this point a debate started among two of them, about whether to abandon the idea due to the ruckus my screaming had caused.” She was instead hit on her forehead with a sharp object and fell with her head on the door. While she was lying on the floor, she was kicked in the face. “I heard the calm voice of my hero, my husband, negotiate with them, asking permission to speak with me so he can help calm me. They agreed.” She joined him in the bedroom, where she was instructed to lie face down on the bed. Her hands were tied behind her. The couple’s minimalist living proved frustrating for the men as they looked for things to take and failed to find money or the weapons they demanded. They managed to gain access to the part of the cottage where the couple’s daughters were sleeping. “(They) switched on the light in our three young daughters’ room. It was clear that our kids were not going to be victims of fear, and even when the youngest two started to get anxious, my husband gained permission to speak to them and allow them to remain calm.” Anke says the girls asked the robbers to leave some items. They discussed it in siSwati and left most of them. They also discussed tying up the girls, but again abandoned the idea when they started protesting. “There was really much confusion between the robbers,” Anke remarked.  According to her, they asked about the houses near them and wanted to know what was “up there”. “We told them that there was nothing, and that we were basically a church.”
They discussed loading the girls into one of the vehicles outside the home, but again the girls simply and calmly said, “Absolutely not, we will never go with you.” “This also seemed to cause division and confusion among them.”
Anke said many items were stolen in the end, but a lot was left behind in the disorganisation. Even the two vehicles in which they fled the scene were discovered abandoned soon after. “Our hurt and shock are real but temporary. We will take time off to recover and receive the therapy we need,” said Justin. “We pray for these three men, that they will be convicted and have the opportunity to find meaningful and profitable means of sustaining their lives,”Anke said. Nelspruit police spokesman, Capt Dawie Pretorius said no arrests have been made.