 HAZYVIEW – A group of concerned residents has united to address the continued degradation of the R536 between Sabie and Hazyview, and D514* road. According to a representative of the group, DA councillor Kleinste Janse van Rensburg, the issue has been persistent and the roads steadily deteriorated over the past four years. MP Ken Roberston, who attended the meeting said an informal tally of the number of potholes on a 13-kilometre stretch of the road from Sabie to Cuckoo’s Ridge, is 643. According to him, recommendations on how to manage and implement a plan to maintain the road was sent to the City of Mbombela Local Municipality in 2002. Also read: Potholes are getting out of hand An example of the some of the potholes on the R536 between Sabie and Hazyview. Photo: supplied. The recommendations suggested that the surface be sealed in 2002 and thereafter on an eight-yearly basis to preserve it and prevent deterioration of the base foundation layer. Residents claim that since then little has been done to improve the surface of the road. Chris Harvie, a committee member of the Hazyview Chamber of Business and Tourism (HCBT), said its state has impacted greatly on local tourism due to a near-total lack of maintenance on the part of the provincial department. “Some of the holes have been filled and it usually makes a bit of a difference for a while, but with heavy rain the temporary fillings do not last, leading to large sections of the road washing away,” he said. Also read: These are potholes tourists love hitting An example of the some of the potholes on the R536 between Sabie and Hazyview. Photo: supplied. “Both provincial roads are used by tourists, residents and industry and are of vital importance to the economic sustainability and growth of the area,” said Robertson. He added that 1 700 potholes were counted on a 13-kilometre stretch of the E517 route. The current state of the road, which is used extensively by heavy vehicles transporting coal or lumber, and an increasing number of tourist buses, has placed continued strain on the base foundation of the R536 which has started to collapse, causing potholes, especially in low-lying areas. Due to a lack of response to the issue by the provincial Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport (DPWRT) the group of concerned citizens, comprising a number of experts in the construction and maintenance of roads, has decided to address the issue by banding together through the initiation of a multipronged action plan. Following the meeting, Robertson said Kiepersol residents have resorted to becoming the self-appointed custodians for the maintenance of the E517 for the past six years. Also read: Flies and potholes bother Graskop residents An example of the some of the potholes on the R536 between Sabie and Hazyview. Photo: supplied. “The state of the roads, both the R536 and E517 which are major arteries in and out of the area, is a nightmare from the perspective of maintaining a healthy flow of tourists to the area because it has become very dangerous to travel on them,” said Harvie. At the meeting the group of residents, with the support of the DA and HCBT, agreed that a knowledgeable team, with both technical and financial expertise is needed to deal with the failure of government to fulfil its responsibilities. “The group decided that a request be sent directly to the provincial MEC to ask permission for a civil-rights group to work on the road, alternatively to manage and monitor progress on the repairs,” said Janse van Rensburg. Speaking on the lack of government support, Robertson said, “I believe that the state should meet with these residents and offer some compensation for their tireless efforts and the expense they have put into the repairs of this road and that damaged vehicles. The damage to vehicles is escalating. The costs of private-sector repairs to the road are mounting. The cost of a life on either of these roads is something none of us can afford.” At the time of going to press the DPWRT was not able to comment on the issue. *Lowvelder previously reported that the potholes were located on the E517 road according to information provided by the DA. We regret the error.