 Recycling has become a buzzword, but for the average household in the Lowveld it still involves a lot of effort: The infrastructure for collecting recyclable material is not in place at all. Households have to separate rubbish and take recyclables to a drop-off or a buy-back centre, because there is no curbside collection. Why recycle?
The World Wide Fund for Nature says by 2007 people were already using the resources of 1,5 Earths, double what was being used in 1966. By 2030 we could be using the resources of two Earths, but we have only one. Households need to stop throwing away rubbish and start implementing the three Rs: reduce, reuse and recycle. Recycling comprises the breaking-down of products into their constituent parts, and some or all of those being used to produce new products. It is but one way of reducing the impact on the planet and saving resources. Next to recycling are reducing the amount of natural resources consumed and reusing bought items at least once. Consider the following
If you don’t need something, don’t buy it. It sounds obvious, but how many people buy something simply because it is on special offer or a newer model has come on the market? When buying anything, choose a brand that has the least amount of packaging or the kind that can be reused, recycled or composted. Look for products made from recycled material. If there is a demand for such articles, more of the original material will be recycled and less virgin material will have to be mined or grown. Before you throw something away, even for recycling, first think if it can be reused. For example: Can you grow seedlings in it; use it to hold paper clips; wrap a birthday present; or can it be given to a charity shop, a nursery school or a children’s or old-age home?  What can be recycled?
Cooldrink and beer cans, food tins, aluminium foil, paint tins and aerosol cans can all be recycled. In fact, just about any old metal can. Collected steel beverage cans are melted down at steel mills to make new steel, according to Collect-a-Can, a non-profit used-beverage and steel-can recovery organisation. It accepts used beverage cans (cooldrink and beer), aerosol, oil and paint cans, clean food cans and aluminium cans.
Glass is completely recyclable. Glass containers such as tomato-sauce, jam and mayonnaise bottles, as well as juice and wine bottles, no matter the colour, can be recycled. According to the National Recycling Foundation (NRF), however, drinking glasses, light bulbs, crockery and cookware, car headlights, plate glass (window panes), computer and TV screens, laboratory glass and wire-reinforced glass are not collected for recycling. More information about glass recycling can be found on www.theglassrecyclingcompany.co.za. Most paper can be recycled. Different grades, such as high-grade white office paper, craft paper, corrugated board, cardboard boxes for packing and food, magazines, newspapers, scrap paper such as junk mail, envelopes, wine-bottle sleeves, pamphlets and telephone directories can be collected. Recycled paper has a variety of uses. Old corrugated boxes can become new ones: newspapers and magazines can become newspapers again; toilet tissue and paper towelling are made from recycled office paper, newspapers, magazines and printer off-cuts; old office paper, corrugated boxes, newspaper, carton-board trims and
printer off-cuts can made into cereal boxes and soap cartons and newspapers and carton-board trims can be reincarnated as egg boxes. More information on recyclable paper can be found on the Paper Recycling Association of South Africa’s website.
Plastics do not biodegrade; they just break down into smaller particles due to the sun’s ultraviolet rays. Discarded plastics litter cities and countryside or make their way into oceans through storm-water drains. Fortunately, most of the plastic packaging we use is recyclable. Ice-cream and milk containers, fabric-softener bottles, plastic bags and even cling wrap can all be recycled. Many people would start recycling if they knew how to. Local options What options should we make use of in the Lowveld to create a culture of recycling? Who will establish a curbside collection service? Could we all start to take our recyclables to drop-off points or buy-back centres? Who and where will we find such centres? Should we perhaps empower informal recyclers to take our recyclables to a buy-back centre? If you are passionate about recycling and can help build our community into a recycling one, please write to
mariana@lowvelder.co.za.