 MBOMBELA – The City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) has appointed an attorney to handle an urgent appeal from a group of concerned residents of the Rivergate Complex and surrounding suburbs to assist in taking legal action against God Never Fails Ministries (GNF). The pastor of the church has been accused by residents in the area of disturbing the peace. According to a resident of the area who met with Lowvelder, and requested to remain anonymous for fear of retribution, the noise continued throughout the festive season despite earlier appeals to GNF to turn down the volume of the church’s public address system. “My windows rattle when the pastor starts preaching and then we usually have to endure the noise for at least three hours,” said the source. Another resident of the area stated that she was forced to leave her home to escape what she describes as unbearable noise. Also read: Provoking angels a noisy affair The damage to one of the resident’s swimming pools following heavy rain in December. Added to the allegations of excessive noise, the concerned residents, with the help of DA Ward 15 councillor Tersia Marshall and DA PR councillor for the ward, Kleinste Janse van Rensburg, have also requested that an urgent order be brought against the GNF to cease any construction on the site. “During my last visit to the site it was apparent that GNF Ministries have started with construction, despite earlier notices issued by CMLM,” said Marshall. Due to the construction taking place on the site, residents of the Rivergate Complex have suffered damage to their gardens. This due to large amounts of soil washing through the perimeter wall. Also read: Noise by-laws in Mbombela: a travesty “Two residents of Rivergate suffered serious damage to their swimming pools after the heavy rain in December. From what we can tell it happened after the construction started on the site where GNF,” said Marshall. According to Marshall, Goodman Mokwena, the building inspector at CMLM issued a fine to GNF and requested that building plans were submitted for approval in November. Municipal spokesman Joseph Ngala confirmed that CMLM has committed itself to the matter. “Attorneys have been appointed and are working on the matter as we speak. Any agreements the City concludes with attorneys are a private matter between the parties,” he said. Also read: By-laws concerns Nelspruit resident “The matter is now a legal one, meaning that we cannot divulge any details until the matter has been settled,” Ngala said. Despite attempts to contact a representative of the GNF Ministries pastor Jewel Peba, Lowvelder was unable to gather comment from him before going to press.