 HAZYVIEW – Traffic around the town came to a halt again on Thursday due to taxi protest action, but by 11:00 all access roads were open. The taxi associations of Hazyview and Bushbuckridge had been blocking access routes since Monday. They are disputing the use of these roads and the taxi rank located at Twin City. Operators who service the southern routes towards White River and Numbi Gate claim that those operating from the north are interfering by transporting passengers directly from Bushbuckridge and surrounds to these destinations.
At the time of going to press the cluster commander was addressing delegates of the taxi associations at the police station. Earlier the R40 south of the police station to White River and Numbi Gate, was closed at De Rust. Allegations that all roads were blocked and police and strikers were firing live ammunition were false.  According to Spesplan officers who had been deployed at De Rust, a truck blocking traffic near Umbhaba Lodge was partly removed and the road passable. A taxi parked in an intersection in town was also removed. Chris Harvie of the Hazyview Chamber of Business and Tourism reported from the police station that the whole town was being heavily patrolled to prevent taxi build-up, with a huge SAPS presence at De Rust. The situation was stable at the time.  While the road was blocked, tourism-safety ambassadors were positioned at all junctions to keep travellers informed a and to direct them to safe routes. Thursday evening it was reported that the meeting at the police station ended well and the provincial SAPS leadership held on to the agreement that taxi operations should continue like previously. They would monitor the situation at the rank. On Tuesday a preliminary agreement between the taxi associations of Hazyview and Bushbuckridge was reached.
On Monday the main roads leading to the Kruger National Park and other Lowveld sightseeing spots became inaccessible when protesters completely blocked the R40 adjacent to the police station with their minibus taxis. Tuesday morning started quietly, while a heavy presence of SAPS and traffic officials was noticeable at entrances to the town. Shortly after 09:00 taxis started to gather again. According to participants, it was agreed on Tuesday that no association would be allowed to either block or disturb motorists on the road as of Tuesday. All were going to report back to their respective supporters that as of Thursday, they should revert back to their respective taxi ranks and operate as usual. The Twin City Hazyview rank would further be under government control, and therefore all those associations should nominate three representatives to form the management thereof. Speaking at a meeting with the province’s traffic officers at Mbombela Stadium on Tuesday, MEC for community safety, security and liaison, Pat Ngomane said the department was monitoring the taxi strike and was willing to work with the various departments to resolve the matter.