 OHRIGSTAD – A neighbouring farm manager to Crystal Creek Private Game Reserve was arrested for illegal hunting on Thursday. Limpopo police spokesman Brig Motlafela Mojapelo said after the farm manager, George “Org” Boshoff (39), was apprehended on January 3, the preliminary investigations led to the arrest of another farm manager. ALSO READ:Farm manager nabbed for illegal hunting Sakkie Botha, farm manager of Tholo Game Farm, appeared in the Praktiseer Magistrate’s Court today on charges of illegal hunting, stock theft, fraud and theft. Sakkie Botha A source close to the investigation stated that upon his arrest, police confiscated three rifles. A 458,30-06 and a 223. Dr Jackie Pepler, owner of Crystal Creek Private Game Reserve, described the illegal hunting as a slaughter which had taken place on the farm. ALSO READ: Mozambican sentenced for poaching in Kruger He said he wanted to do bow hunting as the animals would never have to hear the sound of a rifle. “Obviously if I had to put one down due to illness, I would then arrange for someone to bring a rifle to do this.” George “Org” Boshoff He appointed Boshoff as a farm manager in June 2016 when he was recommended by Botha. “I knew he was a professional hunter, but I had explained to him the only hunting I wanted done was bow hunting. “I started noticing that animals were not coming close to my house any longer. I had two kudus which had distinctive large horns that were missing. The animals would also run from my game-drive vehicle, which they never used to do as they were used to it.” Then, by pure chance, he went with his son to another game farm on holiday. “This professional hunter starts talking about where you can go for the best experience and he mentions my farm’s name and my manager as the contact person.” Pepler immediately got a private anti-poaching team to investigate the matter. “It turned out that my farm was not the only one used by this outfitter for international guests to come and hunt on. Some neighbouring farms were also affected.” ALSO READ: Poacher jailed after horrific video went viral It was also revealed that Pepler’s safari vehicle as well as his bakkie were used during the hunting. “That is not hunting when they sat on my game-drive vehicle and shot the animals, this is the slaughter of canned hunting. “It is difficult to say exactly the worth of animals hunted, as it’s millions. We had so many big ones on the farm that cannot be replaced.” A source close to the investigation confirmed that the arrest came about after a sting operation was conducted by the Noctuam Anti-Poaching and Lebowakgomo Stock
Theft and Endangered Species units. The breeding stock that was hunted included eland, kudu, giraffe, blue wildebeest, impala, oryx and warthog, according to the source. Protected species such as blue duiker and oribi were also apparently hunted by Boshoff on a neighbouring farm along with a variety of outfitters and international hunters. Lowvelder investigated and found that Boshoff had previously been apprehended and charged for a similar offence in Belfast in 2010. The case, however, was withdrawn in court on June 30, 2015. Boshoff was granted R500 bail and is set to appear in court again on February 2. At the time of to press, the outcome of Botha’s court appearance was not known.