 BARBERTON – The once-loved former councillor of Ward 45 in the City of Mbombela Local Municipality, Mandla Mamba has vowed he is not leaving. This is despite the community of Emjindini, especially Ward 45 where he was once held in high esteem, demanding that they want him out, not only of the area but the jurisdiction. They accused him of perpetuating crime and corruption within the community.  Problems arose last Thursday when residents of the ward attacked him. In a video which went viral on social-media networks, Mamba is seen arriving at a meeting that was held at the home of the current ward councillor, Lifa Sithole. He is seen having an argument with community members. Moments later he is attacked and manages to run away. Since the incident, Mamba has been in hiding as the community is baying for his blood.
In a telephonic interview with the newspaper on Tuesday morning, Mamba said he was not going anywhere. He said if anyone has proof that he was corrupt and was perpetuating crime, they should submit sworn affidavits to the police. “This is a political plot that is well funded against me. For now, I can’t mention names of those behind this plot, but time will tell. I will still have to go back and address the community as I still believe that I command a large number of followers in that area,
not these few drunkards on the streets,” said Mamba. He said at first they accused him of preventing job opportunities.
“When they started to mobilise the community against me, they first said I stopped Barberton Mines from employing 180 people. Later, they changed their tune and said I was behind crime in the area. This is just a well-funded political plot against me and time will tell,” added Mamba.  His successor in Ward 45, Sithole said this coming Saturday they will hold a march to the police station where they want to hand over a memorandum of grievances. “On top of the list is a request for the state to assist the community in chasing Mamba from the area as he has been identified by residents as one who is causing conflict. We also want to forge unity with the police. Without them, the community can’t live in peace and harmony. We also want to unite Umjindi. This violence that is happening within our communities has divided us politically and we need to restore the unity,” said Sithole. The march will start at Tzaneen Four-Way Stop at 09:00 on Saturday. In the meantime, the cases that were opened against the three men accused of attacking Mamba on Thursday, have since been struck off the roll. Following their arrest on Friday, community members demonstrated outside Barberton Police Station, demanding their release. Residents claimed that the three were arrested for a good cause as they were fighting for the community.
The men were identified as Gift Mnisi, Dennis Nkosi and Mandla Nkosi. The trio were charged with common assault, housebreaking and possession of firearm, before the charges were withdrawn.