 MBOMBELA – As hundreds of little ones started their first day of grade 1 on Wednesday, a number were unable to as they have not yet been placed in a public school. Parents who can’t afford to enrol their children in private schools were left frustrated as their kids couldn’t go to school. Some were lucky. One mom received a call on Thursday morning that her daughter had been placed in an English class. Others simply showed up at the school of their choice (with their children fitted out in the uniform of the school they hadn’t been placed in) in hopes of success on Wednesday morning. It is not clear exactly how many pupils did not have a place on Wednesday, and will not have one going into the second week of the school year.  Principals declined to speak to Lowvelder, but sources say they are under immense pressure to accommodate as many learners as possible and generally do all they can to help them. The process sees placed children start grade 1 on the first day of school. Afterwards, those who were placed and did not show up are contacted by the school to confirm that they have found a place elsewhere.  The parents of the children on the waiting lists are then contacted and offered places. According to Tersia Marshall, DA councillor for Ward 15, who has been tracking the shortage of schools in Mbombela, at the end of last year one of the primary schools in town had a waiting list of 180. She noted that many children were on more than one list, and that last year this time the same process was followed and all the grade 1s were eventually placed. “We need more schools in town,” she reiterated. One of the parents who complained to the newspaper, pointed out that the department indicated to her that they will be meeting again with all the principals to place the final learners 10 days after the schools have reopened. In the meantime her daughter remained at home. “The department is taking their own time. The lack of urgency! And I don’t have money for a private school.” A number of parents was battling to obtain places for their children in the schools where they already have siblings. Whereas some complain they cannot get space for their kids in the “school across the road from my house”, others who live in further outlying areas insist they want their kids in schools close to where they work in town. Zwane told Lowvelder on Thursday morning that new schools will be built in Mbombela and White River. He could not say when, only that they were working with the City of Mbombela Local Municipality to identify space. However, the Mpumalanga Department of Education’s five-year planning report shows that the construction of one secondary school in Ehlanzeni District is planned – to be built in 2020. Moreover, a shortfall in its operational budget last year saw the department reappropriate some funds away from infrastructure, rolling over already planned projects to the next financial year. The department devised what Zwane called an interim plan to assist schools. They started delivering 16 mobile classrooms to primary and high schools in White River and Mbombela. Hoërskool Bergvlam gave the newspaper a tour of their classroom. It is fitted with an air conditioner, blackboard and noticeboard. The school intends to use it for its technical students. Some schools, however, expressed concern over where to place the classrooms. For Marshall, the snowball effect is a concern. “Next year they’ll need another mobile class for the grade 2s. And the year after that for the grade 3s. And who is paying for the extra teachers and electricity?” Zwane told the newspaper that the department would appoint teachers once additional learners have been placed. “These containers are fully equipped mobile classes. The department is fully aware that once the learners have been admitted, the schools will receive all that is required for teaching and learning to take place. “This exercise has been done for a number of years in some parts of the province and yielded positive outcomes. The mobile classes are already in transit, because we do not expect unnecessary delays.” Space shortage in schools to be addressed No place in grade one for hundreds of pupils Too many children – too few public schools Lack of space in schools a big concern to parents