 MBOMBELA – According to Stats SA’s mid-year population estimates of 2016, the total number of people living with HIV in the country increased from an estimated 4,72 million in 2002 to 7,03 million in 2016. In 2015, an estimated 12,7 per cent of the total population was HIV positive. Mpumalanga has, according to the 2013 antenatal survey, a high prevalence at 37,5 per cent. All of the province’s 18 municipalities have a prevalence rate above 30 per cent. KwaZulu-Natal still has, according to the South African National HIV Prevalence, Incidence and Behaviour Survey, the highest new infection rate of the nine provinces, and the highest overall prevalence of infection at 16,9 per cent. In the province, 12 per cent of the youth between the ages of 15 and 24 are HIV positive, followed by Mpumalanga at 10 per cent.  New infections among adolescent girls in 2015 were over two per cent compared with 0,17 per cent in boys of the same age.  A total of 270 000 new infections were recorded in South Africa in 2016 and 26 000 of those were in Mpumalanga. To combat the problem, the Department of Health has introduced the She Conquers programme which targets young girls and women and their partners, with the aim of reducing new HIV infections and teenage pregnancy, as well as keeping girls in school. According to Nqobile Shabalala, provincial chairman of the Treatment Action Campaign (TAC), government has done enough but still needs to do a lot in advancing awareness in rural areas.
“There is a huge lack of information on how to use health services,” he said. December 1 was World Aids Day. It highlighted the plight of the pandemic and also celebrated the momentous strides made in combating the virus. Shabalala said a single day to bring awareness to a pandemic is not enough. “You need informed people to facilitate such information,” he said. “We as the TAC take months and years to train our activists to be able to tackle key issues.”  According to Shabalala, government needs to put community health-care workers on the payroll; employ more skilled workers, including doctors, nurses and specialists; and develop documents that people will understand to read and follow. In a country where more than 12,6 per cent of the population is living with HIV, there have been calls to categorise the epidemic as a disability. Disability expert Justene Smith argues the pandemic can lead to disorders. “There are situations where the disease can prevent an individual from performing the inherent requirements of their job and can have a negative impact on their performance. In such cases, it could be classified as a disability, or a progressive one, to be specific,” Smith said. According to her, because it attacks the immune system, this can cause, among other things, degeneration of bone tissue and cartilage, resulting in chronic osteoarthritis, which itself can be classified as a disability. “This is most likely to occur before an individual who is positive has started their treatment or does not take their medication at all,” she clarified. The use of antiretrovirals (ARVs) can sometimes also ensure that persons who are HIV positive lead a healthy lifestyle and live a normal life. “The effects of ARVs in helping persons with HIV/Aids is well documented, but the treatment can have side-effects which could result in the person who is using them developing a disability. We have experienced cases where ARVs have caused people to lose their eyesight. In such incidents, visual impairment would be considered the disability,” said Smith.