 MBOMBELA – This claim is enough to raise a bit of scepticism. After all, how much fruit can a discussion with an 88-year-old man living in Herfsakker Old Age Home bear? However, from the word go, the enthusiasm and colourful sharing of his involvement in the sport in the Loweld was captivating. It was part of unshared history of sport in the Lowveld – a tale that has not been told before. Pat’s wife, Joan, lives with her daughter’s family in Kenya. He has been part of the Herfsakker family short of three years. Pat, together with his two brothers and sister, grew up in Kenya where his parents had a dairy farm. They also farmed with thoroughbred horses. Pat Drury and his brothers, Jon and Mike. His parents “adopted” a little boy whose parents were in the military. He played cricket since his school days and it has been his favourite sport ever since. In 1948 he went to study forestry at Saasveld Forestry School (SFS) which became part of the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University, George Campus some years later. “We often went camping. Every aspect of a forest fascinated me. I would have loved to become a veterinarian, as I grew up with animals. At that time it wasn’t possible. I received a bursary from the British government to study at SFS.” The course consisted of one year theory and one year practical. After his studies, he moved back to his homeland where he worked for the forestry department until July 4, 1963. Pat permanently relocated to South Africa where he worked for Venus Timbers near Graskop. Also read: Nuwe skeidsregters gereed vir krieketseisoen He played cricket for Sabie and after having to relocate to Barberton for work, he played for the home team for three years. “My right knee started giving me problems. I was sick and tired of having to wake up on a Monday after match day with my knee looking like a basketball. But I have made so many friends through the sport and a lot of great memories of the game. I still wanted to be involved, so I decided to take up the role as scorer, but I found it very uninspiring.” “I spoke to a few guys about the possibility of an umpiring association. They were keen. I started studying the laws of cricket and did all my exams through Northern Transvaal and the British Association of Cricket Umpires.” In 1968, he was the first-ever chairman- secretary-treasurer of the Lowveld Cricket Umpire Association. Pat had the opportunity to umpire some of the Nuffield Week* games and the coveted Castle Currie Cup**. He got to know players such as Kepler Wessels (former captain of the Proteas) and Peter Kirsten (represented the Proteas between 1991 and 1994) when they were still schoolboys. “I was loved as an umpire. I got the players laughing. My last game as an umpire was around 1982. I got to know a lot of people. It was worth my while. I have been off the cricket scene ever since. I never had any hopes for a side to win. I wanted cricket to win. It determined a great deal of who I am today.” In 1996 Pat was appointed by Ceylon Forest Station in Sabie to rebuild and reconstruct the Fanie Botha Hiking Trail. Pat Drury. “It was the happiest and most soul-satisfying year of my life. I loved it.” In 1997, he met the girl of his dreams, Joan. They moved to Zimbabwe for four years to help his sister with gardening and other miscellaneous tasks around the house such as farming and creating hiking trails. “She also farmed with horses and she had her own pony club. The land consisted of endless kilometres of trails through the Msasa Forest and rock paintings that are probably more than 2 000 years old.” “We returned to Kenya to join Joan’s family. We lived there for 12 years and had a great time.” His left knee started to give him problems and Pat had to return to South Africa to get it replaced. “Joan’s side of the family was willing to pay for the operation, but it just didn’t feel right to expect them to pay. In order to qualify for the much-needed knee replacement, I was listed as a dependent on my daughter’s medical aid. Joan had to stay on in Kenya.” Little did Pat know, that a letter from Joan’s daughter would implicate that they would probably never see each other again. Pat Drury as a young lad. “I had to send a sworn affidavit that stated that I was in South Africa for medical attention and that I would never return to Kenya… “Joan resides in an old age home there – the same one we dreamt of growing old in together. That is life. I suppose. At least we drop each other a letter every two to three months.” Pat is still an avid cricket supporter and tunes into BBC News every morning to stay up to date with the latest cricket news around the world. Pat Drury paging through his photo album. *The Nuffield Week currently is known as the Coke Week. **The Castle Currie Cup nowadays is called the Sunfoil Series.