 MARLOTH PARK – Ten gumboots found in the local water reservoir seem to be the tip of the iceberg regarding the settlement’s recent water issues. According to Cindy Benson of the Marloth Park Ratepayers Association (MPRA), the issues started around December 15, with the highest areas bearing the brunt of it. Residents periodically have no water available, or when they do, it is filthy. Also read: Water shortages on the cards if it doesn’t rain It was reported to the authorities and they started investigating. According to Mariette Preddy of the DA, the issue is quite complicated and workers have to follow several avenues while attempting to solve it. She said the problem possibly existed for some time but only became noticeable when Marloth Park’s water consumption rose. Preddy requested assistance from the Department of Water Affairs and visited some of the affected houses of elderly residents, along with the water manager, to assess the situation. Workers were shocked to find five sets of gumboots blocking the pipes in the reservoir during their investigation and suspect there may be more blockages in Olifant Street. Preddy said the pipes may need to be cut open to remove the obstructions and half-jokingly added that they may find more gumboots, or even overalls. Also read: Salga warns of future SA water shortage An MPRA member, Abel Coetzee, has also jumped in to help fix the problem, with vice-chair Dawie Fourie supporting Benson in her fight to get residents the services they pay for. Benson said residents had reported getting sick from the water and had lost business over one of Marloth’s busiest seasons due to the problem. She has been trying to get the results from water testing since last Monday, but it remains tied up in red tape.
Benson said she believed part of the problem is the fact that the promised second reservoir was never built, despite the increasing number of residents and visitors. Also read: Drunk employee compounds Hazyview water crisis A cover for the reservoir was also only added last year, following a big furore from residents worried about the health implications if the reservoir was contaminated by debris falling into it. Benson said she talked to an expert earlier this week, who agreed to test the water lines to find the problem, free of charge, but the municipality has to give its permission first. Meanwhile residents are urged to use water sparingly and be cautious when drinking it.