 MALALANE – Colleen Elphick’s (84) request that her attackers loosen the tight bonds around her wrists, was answered with a punch in the face. She and her husband, Dave Elphick (86), two of the longest-living farming residents in the Onderberg, were attacked at their home on the family farm on Saturday. Family friend, Michelle Martin said Dave was born on the farm. His father, Capt GJ “Mkhonto” Elphick, was one of the biggest landowners in the area when he settled there after the Anglo-Boer War in the early 1900s. Elphick Sr also owned a gold mine in the area. Dave and Colleen farmed sugar cane on their portion until the land was restituted to a local community in a land claim some years ago. ALSO READ : BREAKING: Elderly couple suffer at the hands of farm attackers The couple continued living on a small section they managed to keep, along with their son Richard. Their son was 62 when he committed suicide last year. The couple also had a daughter who died of cancer some years ago. Their remaining living daughter travelled from Gauteng this weekend to support her elderly parents. According to police spokesman, Sgt Gerald Sedibe, the Elphicks returned home to their farm between Malalane and Kaapmuiden on Saturday at around 11:00 when the security gate would not open. When Dave climbed out to check on the problem, three armed men wearing balaclavas pounced and also forced Colleen out of the vehicle. The couple were ordered to walk to their home, with the third suspect staying behind to supposedly drive the Elphicks’ vehicle closer. ALSO READ:  Farm attack: Man begged for life At the house, the couple had to point out their safe and valuables at gunpoint. The men tied them up with cable ties and shoelaces. The robbers took cash, jewellery, cellphones and three firearms from the safe. The couple’s cellphones were also stolen. Martin related that when Colleen requested that the men loosen the cable ties around her wrists slightly, as they caused her severe pain, one of the men hit her in the face, leaving her with a blue eye. She also had other bruises caused by how tightly she had been tied up. The attackers fled on foot. Their victims spent hours trying to free themselves, according to Sedibe. He also said Dave was assaulted with the flat side of a panga and injured on his arms and leg. He will reportedly have to undergo several treatments. According to Martin, Dave managed to find a knife to free them after the attackers fled. They then managed to press the panic button. Securicon Lowveld confirmed that it received the call shortly before 15:00. Dave managed to get to his vehicle and drove to Kaapmuiden SAPS to report the case. Police accompanied him back home, where Securicon had arrived. The security firm’s ambulance treated them on the scene. Martin said the Elphicks are very strong and are trying to stay positive. The couple could not be reached at the time of going to press. Sedibe urged anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects to contact WO Lucky Shabangu of Kaapmuiden SAPS on 082-448-1688. ALSO READ: No murder case after two farmers are killed The Onderberg farming community is very serious about safety with those affiliated with the local farmers union regularly undertaking security and emergency drills. Some of the most serious attacks over the past few years include the murder of Riaan van den Berg in May 2014. He was killed at his home on a farm near Malalane and suspects stole his vehicle and other belongings. The goods were recovered and two men were convicted and sentenced to several decades in prison in August 2016. In June 2015 Erick Meiring was attacked in his home in the Komatipoort area, seriously assaulted and robbed of numerous items. One perpetrator was arrested hours after the attack and many of the items were found in a nearby veld.