 BARBERTON – An ABC Motsepe League between Barberton City Stars and Acornbush United turned violent when dozens of fans rushed to the field and got involved in a brawl. The match took place at Barberton Prison Sports Ground last Saturday. At that time the score was 4-1 in favour of the visitors, United. The hooligans, alleged to be Stars supporters, invaded the pitch and attacked the United bench and players with empty beer bottles. According to Mesiah Hlungwani, spokesman for correctional services, all gates to and from the soccer field were locked by Stars supporters after they instructed all people from Barberton to leave. “Gunshots were fired between the supporters of the two teams on the soccer field and this also affected the officials who reside in the prison’s single quarters. They will be referred to psychologists for counselling,” said Hlungwani. Read More: Action-packed schoolboy rugby thrills at stadium He said heavy-duty bolt cutters had to be brought in to cut the padlocks of the gates. “When this was done, the officials were threatened by the supporters of Stars but they managed to cut the padlocks and open the gates. This allowed the supporters and players of United to leave the field,” added Hlungwani. Among those who were threatened was Stars coach, Silence Dibakoene, who is also a correctional services officer. “Dibakoene also managed to leave the field using the exit next to the main gate, but his supporters followed him as he was driving to the side of maximum correctional services centre. A quarrel ensued between the prison officials and the supporters. The latter, however, eventually left the scene,” continued Hlungwani. Several of them were injured. Bevan Mahlangu, ABC Motsepe League’s coordinator in Mpumalanga, said their legal department will deal with the matter when they reopen in 2019. “We have received reports from both the home team, Stars, the visiting team United and the match commissioner. Our legal department will prioritise the matter when we reopen in January next year. That is where we will be guided on whether the home team will be charged for misconduct or the visiting one,” said Mahlangu.