 Though these are not all of them on show, here are three of Sobhuza’s official limousines used during his royal reign of more than 60 years. One of the faint photographs in the museum depicts the king and his entourage against another car much older than 1941 Buick Straight Eight – the oldest of the cars in the collection here.  This vehicle, dating from sometime during the thirties, is difficult to identify. Once a prize possession and most probably the first in a very long line of vehicles for the Swazi royal family, one can only wonder how this old timer came to its rusty end somewhere behind a royal kraal in the misty mountains of Swaziland. Also missing from the collection is a Rolls Royce Silver Ghost which is currently being restored, according to the friendly guide at the memorial museum. On display is an immaculate dark blue Buick Straight Eight with the date as 1951. Most probably this was the year the car was purchased for the king.  The actual year of this model is 1941. The year 1951 was long before independence. The Swazi king was still subjected to Her Majesty the Queen of England and her colonial envoys, hence the lowly registration number of S 5. The expansive tail wings of the 1959 Buick that followed just show what vast chances happened in the design of motor cars by the end of the fifties. This car is also incorrectly dated as 1957. This was two years before this car, with its extraordinary features, had hit the market in America. Its winged design earned the car the Siswati nickname: Ingculungculu esibethamaphiko or “big bird” among the king’s underlings.  By this time it was a mere nine years before Swaziland got its independence from Great Britain. The king was clearly upped in status and was granted the registration of S1. In 1968, the year of Swazi independence, the king really went big. S1 now was a Cadillac Fleetwood, similar to that of the United States’ heads of state. It was quite un-British, coming from the Queen of England as an independence gift. An offer some time ago from a wealthy German car collector to purchase the three cars at four million Euro was declined. As with Sobhuza II himself, surely his vehicles as well, carry a certain significence and should remain in Swaziland. Sobhuza II was born in 1899. He started his tribal reign in 1921. After independence he became the sole ruler of the Kingdom of Swazi and, at his death in 1982 at 83, the longest-reigning monarch in the world.  The cars have been kept at the museum since 1986 after they were fetched from Lozitha Royal Residence where they had been parked. According to the late king’s chauffeur Mhlambanyatsi Dlamini, the 1941 Buick was the late king’s favourite, especially since it was right-hand driven. He said the present king, Mswati III, had instructed that the cars be kept so that future generations would be able to see them and know their history, reads an edition of the Swazi Times on Sunday on February 2 2008.