 MBOMBELA -The choir, which consists of young people aged 15 to 18, performed Christmas carols for the crowd. The choir spent the weekend in the city, performing at various venues. According to André Oosthuizen, the fourth choirmaster since its inception, said the choir was established 37 years ago. Its members are from across the province. “We have singers from different areas such as Barberton, Witbank, White River, Middelburg and Mbombela. We are busy doing Christmas songs for the festive season. Everyone is in that giving spirit. READ: Choir lauds car guard’s talent We did a similar show in Middelburg a few weeks ago,” said Oosthuizen. The tour also took them to Kruger Mpumalanga International Airport and The Grove shopping centre, where they
performed as part of introducing the choir to the community. Despite it being more than 30 years old, many people are unaware of its existence. “When we perform and people ask where we come from, we sometimes find it difficult to explain where we are based. Mainly we want people to know more about us. We want to introduce these talented youngsters to the entire province, then the whole world,” Oosthuizen explained. READ: Penryn Senior Preparatory Choir embark on yearly tour One of the missions of the choir is to give youths a positive activity. Lerato Ramaijane, who sings the second soprano,
said she enjoys being part of the youth choir. “I’m just having fun. I have been with the choir for more than two years now. The
experience is so amazing.” Lerato Msipha, who sings first tenor, said she likes the family set-up in the
group. “This is like my second family. It helps me a lot to have confidence and academically I’m excelling because, as they say, a healthy mind gives you a
healthy body,” she said. Echoing the same, sentiments were Leanie Viljoen and Leoné Burger, who have been with the choir for five years and two months respectively. “For the past five
years, I have progressed so much as an individual. This is a place for me to escape from the bad things out there. I have made a lot of friends,” said Leanie. Leoné said her time with the choir has been unbelievable. “I’m new to the choir, but I feel like I have been here for a long time. I love music so much and with the choir, I think it is where I belong.”
Another choirmaster, Ernest Malatjie, said it was not only about music, but also an opportunity for them to tour the
country. “We have educational trips where individuals learn about different things, including how to improve as a performer.”