 Much more than a diary, it is packed with new information, historical facts and updated, hardto-find motoring knowledge. This is in addition to important dates and carefully-researched details about upcoming motoring events. “Motorheads Diary 2019 fills a niche by supplying sought-after information across a wide range of motoring genres,” says publisher Heide-Marie von der Au. “It’s a concise annual overview of motoring in South Africa, designed to appeal to a broad cross-section of men and women, young or old – from casual motoring fans to die-hard racers, passionate street rod and classic car owners, avid motorcyclists, history buffs and many other devotees.” The handy A5-size, hardcover, page-a-day diary highlights upcoming races, rallies, car shows, biking and aircraft events. ALSO READ: Take the risk out of buying a second-hand car A number of important international dates are included for travellers and holidaymakers. The latest edition also includes bonus information about South African train tours and historic steam train events. Motorheads Diary 2019 features profiles of and short articles about interesting people and clubs. It also comprises a wealth of helpful and practical information – such as a car club index, useful repair/restoration/service providers and race track/motorsport-related information.  “In short, it provides all the info you need to fuel your passion for motoring throughout the year,” stresses Von der Au. Motorheads Diary comes with a significant history. The concept of a unique motoring diary was born in 2005 when car-mad artist Von der Au first started attending classic and other motorsport track events. She identified a niche for something that would supply relevant information to a cross-section of enthusiasts. ALSO READ: Car break-in caught on camera Her efforts to fill this gap were immediately and widely recognised. Over the last 13 years, close to 40 000 Motorheads Diaries have been printed, with more than 100 different custom cover images specially designed for individual customers. “The concept of the Motorheads Diary with a custom cover has become increasingly popular with companies, clubs, race teams, race tracks and motorsport venues,” notes Von der Au, adding that custom-cover diaries double as functional promotional gifts that last the entire year. “Even in this digital age, the Motorheads Diary continues to gain popularity, not only for the quality and detail of the information it contains, but because users enjoy the tactile feel of a quality printed work and appreciate that the pressing appointment detail, vital telephone number or urgent reminder is quick and easy to jot down with a convenient ‘oldschool’ diary,” she says. The Motorheads Diary 2019 – a “must-have” for the motoring enthusiast – retails at R 190-00 ex VAT. It is available at a number of bookstores (including PNA) or direct from the publishers – Motorheads SA. Contact HeideMarie von der Au at hm@motorheads.co.za.