 MBOMBELA – Mpumalanga MEC for Health, Sasekani Manzini said the province is ready to deal with the high influx of patients in health facilities during this festive season. She said doctors and nurses are already on standby to assist anyone who presents themselves at the health facilities. “It is the beginning of the end of the year 2018. It is the season where our facilities see a lot of casualties due to motor vehicle accidents and violence. I would like to appeal to the communities to work together with our officials during this challenging season by respecting them, maintaining patience and allowing officials to execute their duties without interference and disturbance. The department wants to assure people of the province that our facilities will be fully functional during the festive season holidays. All our hospitals and clinics are ready especially for emergencies,” said Manzini. Read More: General hospital lauded for its community service She said areas that are affected by high traffic will have ambulances visible and managers will from time to time be visible through the use of the primary response vehicles in order to ensure that there is no delay in attending to life threatening accidents. Manzini also raised concerns over the harassment of health professionals in health facilities. “On many occasions, we receive complaints of ill treatment of patients but at the same time we have seen our health professionals being harassed and attacked in our health facilities. Let us all work together with peace and promote the spirit of Batho Pele. Whilst health professionals are busy assisting patients, let us maintain respect for them. Let us not harass them. This is also the same message I have issued to our health professionals that they must at all times treat patients with diligence, dignity and care” closed MEC Manzini. She further urged the community to use emergencies numbers in case of urgent. The normal emergency numbers are 112 or 10177. The public can call the following numbers if there is no response at the above: • Ehlanzeni District call centre on 013-753-2285
• Gert Sibande District call centre on 017-632-1894
• Nkangala District call centre on 013-246-1319.