The Working on Fire (WoF) Programme is so much more than just firefighting and job creation, it’s also about skills development and saving lives, property and the environment. Therefore, the Department of Environmental Affairs, through WoF, funded a Drought Relief Programme in catchment areas in the Western, Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. Kishugu Fleet Solutions allocated a range of fleet vehicles to Working on Fire’s Drought Relief teams for the next seven months to ensure these projects are executed successfully. According to the Operational Executive of the Working on Fire Programme, Piet van der Merwe, alien plant species contribute to drought and increases the risk of fire. “Alien plants also use much more water than indigenous plants.”  A decision has been made to focus on three problem areas: The Bergriver Dam catchment area in the Berg River Valley near Franshoek where 88 drought relief workers will remove these alien plants for the next seven months, Theewaterskloof catchment area near Villiersdorp where seven High Altitude Teams of 13 people each will be working and four High Altitude Teams in the Soetkraal area near Tsitsikama. There is also a team of 88 people in the Elands River Catchment of the Eastern Cape area and one High Altitude Team in the Umgeni River Catchment area in KwaZulu-Natal.  Piet says, alongside this contribution to Drought Relief it’s just as important to have safe transportation. He thanked Kishugu Fleet Solutions for their state-of-the-art vehicles which are all equipped with DriveCams’ Driver Behaviour management tools  which monitor and manage driver behaviour , vehicle tracking and anti-theft devices which were also installed , all of which is managed and driven by the Journey Management Centre in Nelspruit.  “The various custom-generated fleet packages ensure a complete fleet management solution to any kind of project. Kishugu Fleet Solutions ensure that there are efficient Track and React systems deployed across all fleet for real-time driver tracking and behaviour.  Kishugu Fleet Solutions manages the leasing period, depreciation, safety requirements and replacement policy of fleet. “We wish these teams the best during the seven-month operation to clean these catchment areas. Stay safe.” Piet concluded.