 On November 24, about 200+ bikers attended the 18th celebration of the local leg of this national campaign, and for Bernadette (Bernie) Woodford and her support team of organisers, it once again proved to be an excessively heart-warming experience. And once they have done an audit of all the toys, handing them to the various charities will create even more warm fuzzy feelings because the expressions and energy which kids receiving these will share “is just wow… So rewarding!  The event this year, which started at Rudamans, again ended with an official ride through town, at Honda Wing Nelspruit. ALSO READ: Bikers to bring smile to needy kids When I arrived there at about 11:20, the festivities were in full swing and Burglar’s Dog – yes, this is the name of the band – was on stage literally doing that rock-and-rollheadbanging-hoarse-voice-get-your-rearend-off-the-seat-music of the ‘60s.  This meant that, yes, mom and dad, despite their holier-than-thou adult behaviour at home, could in fact just show some colour. And they did! The Delarey MCC donated more than 440 toys. Now, of course, once the toys found their way into the collection truck, bikes were parked for many others to look at and drool over.  “Yes, I brought some toys,” said one happy leather-clad bearded well-matured oudste. “But this here beaut is my toy.” And yes, I must admit that when it comes to paint jobs, I saw some artwork of the magnificent kind – there sure are some seriously talented bikers out there.  I was also introduced to a rad-looking scooter belonging to Leon Cremer. Said Leon, “The local scooters’ brigade was booming for a short period, but it seems that the fad has now faded somewhat.” And on that note I faded towards the adult playpen where the game of hit-the-bottle was about to get some guys and gals into a twist. Although some were already twisting at the time, okay?  Yes, fun it certainly was, but with lots more to come for both the mature and not so mature, I made a quiet exit after equipping myself with a groen mamba – not that I needed one though. ALSO READ: Spar hosts treasure hunt for bikers See, I am a teetotaller but heck – it was hot so a groenetjie was like mother’s milk – ryk en lekker… The Toy Run is an event with serious intent and every year this creates truckloads of happiness for many kids.  This would not be possible if not for thousands of biker hearts throughout the world. So perhaps, it is time for those critical of the odd out-ofcharacter biker behaviour and sense of fun, to take cognisance of this. All bikers have hearts – some just happen to have a larger itch for speed and wheelies than others.  Thank you to each and every sponsor, every band and of course a huge high fi ve to Bernie – the 2018 Lowveld Toy Run was awesome!