 Over 150 of the country’s most special collector cars went on display on Val de Vie’s polo field. The Grand Prix Party was the culmination of a spectacular festival the likes of which will probably never be seen in South Africa again. The owners of 24 pre-war Grand Prix and sports cars were thrilled by their experience at the East London Grand Prix circuit and parade laps of the original Prince George circuit where their cars competed some 80 years ago.  Testament to the quality of these vintage machines, all the cars made it through 1 000km of amazing South African scenery on the tour between the race meeting and the finishing point near Franschhoek, delighting their owners and surprised spectators along the route. ALSO READ: Classic cars share the limelight with new technologies It must be quite a sight to stumble across a Grand Prix Alfa filling up at the local petrol station. And, come rain or shine, these open-top single seaters and sportscars relished the South African driving experience, scenery and exquisite hospitality and cuisine.  An engaging experience for many at the Grand Prix Garden Party, the chance to get up close and personal to these incredible cars is something seldom repeated at any of the big prestigious events around the world – and the cars were certainly world-class. To have not one, but two ERAs back in South Africa is special enough, let alone the 1934 South African Grand Prix-winning Maserati 8CM and a Scuderia Ferrari Alfa Romeo P3.  The mix of Rileys, MGs, elegant Aston Martins, Bugattis and local specials really completed an incredible celebration of South African motorsport. ALSO READ: United by the undeniable love for vintage cars While the likelihood of pre-war machinery of this calibre ever returning to South Africa is slim, the success of the event is a good recipe for future endeavours to celebrate other eras of South African motorsport.  The rich learnings, new memories and sheer excitement hold great promise for future event possibilities from Speedstream Events. Watch this space!