 Not everyone enjoys household chores — that’s a given. But what if you knew that there were more benefits to them than just making your home look more presentable? Once you realize how these simple tasks can boost your happiness, lower your stress, or protect your body from diseases, your to-do list will never look the same again. 1. Making the bed Studies have shown that those who make their beds each morning take on the day with increased productivity and a greater sense of well-being. Most people feel a small sense of accomplishment when they make their bed each day, and are then encouraged to keep up the trend by completing task after task. Those who make their bed will also tend to feel more rested and energized throughout the day, rather than tired or groggy. Leaving the bed a rumpled mess can add unnecessary stress to your day. 2. Tidying up your yard Here’s some motivation to get your yard in order: those individuals who do the most yard work, DIY projects, and housecleaning have about a 30 percent lower risk of suffering a first-time heart attack or stroke, as compared to those who are more sedentary. Plus, there is a chemical released in freshly cut grass that makes people feel more joyful and relaxed. As you spend time outside sweating (and re-hydrating!) your body is flushing out all of the toxins that it has collected. Often times, those who spend a lot of time sweating outside will feel a second wind of energy after they’ve cooled off. 3. Washing dishes Cleaning your plate mindfully has the ability to lower nervousness levels by almost 30 percent. By doing this, the individual is focused on the smell of the soap, the temperature of the water, and the touch of the dishes. Those who do not take the time to wash dishes by hand don’t experience this calming benefit. Washing dishes doesn’t take a lot of concentration, so the mind is free to just wander while the hands are busy. This is also a great time to practice
breathing exercises. 4. Cleaning the bathroom The benefits of cleaning a bathroom extend beyond your own body and the motions of cleaning. A bathroom is the ideal place for harmful bacteria to grow. When you clean it regularly, you are reducing the chance of disease; disabling it from spreading from places like the toilet to your toothbrush. Regular cleaning will also prevent mold from growing, which if not taken care of right away will
become more difficult to control later on. 5. Growing flowers and vegetables Taking part in activities in nature can help to reduce the symptoms of depression. A Norwegian study took a group of individuals who had been diagnosed with different forms of depression and instructed them to spend about six hours each week gardening. At the end of a few months, these individuals noticed a notable improvement in the symptoms of their depression, and it continued for a few
months after the study ended. An added bonus: healthy vegetables from your own garden!