 Mamelodi Sundowns coach is not one shy of speaking his mind, let’s check out what he has said in the past: 1 – After drawing goalless against Baroka FC, he blamed their goalkeeper for time wasting tactics. “They have a very good goalkeeper in Elvis Chipezeze. He deserved man of the match for playing. He deserved man of the match for killing time. He is the best in killing time. He is another level. He did it against Pirates so many times limping. How can you
limp so many times and you manage to play the full game? When it goes to penalties you dive without limping. It reminds me of the AS Vita keeper here. He is good keeper, there is no doubt, and deserved the man of the match award. But when somebody does that how do you crown him man of the match? Where is fair play?” 2 – Seemingly frustrated by the fines he got from the league for comments that were deemed to have brought the League into disrepute Mosimane claimed to being targeted for speaking “the truth” in media interviews. “I don’t cheat the game and I don’t short-change the game. I don’t have time to play golf or do other things. I’m a loyal servant of
football, but sometimes I feel that in South Africa you don’t understand me. You personalise things. And I feel that if it becomes too difficult for me, maybe I must go to youth coaching or go to [coach] at the neighbouring countries. I can coach anywhere in the world. If you want me to be apologetic, I can give you those mild interviews: ‘Okay, we played well. The team played well’. You can have them. I can give it to you. When I speak from the heart, it is not accepted in South Africa. Maybe I will leave! Yes, I may not earn the
money that I earn and my lifestyle can change, but I can adjust. I can still take my children to school and I can still stay at my house but leave South African football.”

3 – After losing to Bloemfontein Celtic 5-0 “I have seen nine, I have seen eight, and I have seen seven against AmaZulu. So in my life I have had eight and nine also and so why can’t we also accept that will get five?” 4 – After their entertaining encounter against Tshwane rivals, SuperSport United “SuperSport United and Mamelodi Sundowns coaches don’t play for a draw. We opened the floodgates. It was not a Floyd Mayweather fight; it was a Mike Tyson fight. We kill each other, everybody got the thrill.” 5 – On his star-studded Mamelodi Sundowns team “Positions are up for grabs. You create your own luck. You fight your way in. You fight for your position. It’s not easy. When you are
on the outside, when you are on the bench, you need to come in and make a difference. Otherwise everybody takes positions, otherwise you go to the stands. You keep yourself in the team. It’s survival of the fittest. It’s a difficult team Mamelodi Sundowns,”