 Beetles from the early 1950s to the late 1970s become more collectable with every passing day, while VW buses, known in South Africa as “Kombis”, are off the charts in terms of their desirability. Why is this so? Probably the main reason is that the VW Kombi and Beetle were such reliable vehicles that even today, many youngsters have an early childhood experience of a Beetle or Kombi in their lives.  These darned bugs were survivors! And as we all know, those early impressions stay with you for decades. All over the world, including South Africa, Beetle and VW Bus gatherings are held on a regular basis and they are very well attended. The Classic Car Show at Nasrec regularly draws up to 50 Beetles and buses, and I thought a quick guide to the major model differences between the various Kombis and Beetle versions of the years would be handy. An interesting fact is that the original VW Beetle was never badged as such. It’s a nickname, because the rounded-off little car so obviously resembles a common or garden beetle or bug. Early Beetles in South Africa The first VW Beetle rolled off the production line in Uitenhage, South Africa in 1951, about six years after it became generally available in Europe.  The first generation VW Beetle had an 1 100cc flat four air-cooled engine that produced about 22kW. The first-generation VW Beetle, built here between 1951 and 1952, is known as a split window, because the tiny rear window is split into two sections.  These are the rarest Beetles in South Africa, because so few were built, and only a handful survive. If you see one at Nasrec on November 11, consider yourself to be very fortunate! The second major evolution of the Beetle saw a small oval rear window replace the split window rear screen. The engine size had also increased to a 1200, although many people mistakenly still think these engines are 1100s, because, like the originals, they feature a generator mounting cast in one piece with the crankcase.  Later, post-1950s Beetle engines had a generator mounting bolted to the crankcase. The 1958 model Beetle was the first with a larger, screen rear window. But for one year only, 1958, this large rear window model still had the pop-out indicators on the door posts, known as semaphores, or trafficators, as fitted to the 1951-1957 Beetles. These years comprise the 1200 model, with rounded bumpers and railings. These Beetles generally comprise the classic 1200 models of the early 1960s. The 1300 Beetle. For this year the engine size increased to 1300 and the cars were badged as 1300s. The badge being affixed to the rear engine lid. Disc-brake Beetle. One of the rarest in South Africa, as it was a 1500 with flat hubcaps and front disc brakes. This was the only year that Beetles were produced here with disc brakes. And disc-brake Beetles were only built for part of 1967. Later in the year they reverted to drum brakes and the classic round Beetle hubcaps. These models were available with the excellent 1500 motors, and smaller rear tail lights, but newer, flatpressed bumpers. In the 1970s, Beetles were produced here with 1 300cc and 1 600cc motors. Early in the ‘70s, the tail lights grew to very large, round proportions. The bumpers had already changed to flat-section pressed steel items, not as attractive as the old rounded bumpers of pre-1968. Other changes in this final decade of Beetle production included cars fitted with sporty Rostyle rims at the factory, a sporty twincarb SP Beetle with 14” Rostyles and side-stripes, and late in the production cycle, the so-called S model, which was the only Beetle here to feature a curved front windscreen and a dashboard covered in vinyl and fake wood trim. ALSO READ: United by the undeniable love for vintage cars In the final production years there were also various “special” trim variants, such as the Fun Bug and Jeans Bug. The last Beetle in South Africa was built in January 1979, by which time it was effectively replaced by the front-engined, water-cooled Golf. The correct term for these VW buses is “Microbus” or “Transporter”, but everyone here calls them Kombis, which was in fact a German name for a combination vehicle. And some of the early VW buses assembled here were officially called Kombis by VWSA. These first-gen Kombis are today known as “Splitties”, referring to the front windscreen, that was split in two halves.  The early buses had a 1 200cc Beetle-type engine. In the early 1960s, this engine for the Kombi grew to 1 500cc to provide a little bit more power. Early Splitties came in closed-panel van guise, Kombi bus guise, as a single-cab pick-up, and as the lovely Delux Microbus, which had either 21 or 23 windows, with some of these windows being located in the roof! This is the so-called bay window model, because the single-piece front windscreen is curved and protrudes a little ahead of the bodywork. These much larger models came in vanstyle (transporter) bus, deluxe bus and also in the very collectable Westphalia camper style.  They had engines ranging in size from 1 600cc to 2 000cc. And some were also offered with an automatic transmission. This is a very unusual VW bus in global terms. It was produced here in South Africa for just over a year from kits imported from Brazil. The idea, in the mid-‘70s, was to offer a cheaper “Kombi” than the bay window bus, which came into production here from 1968 onwards. The Fleetline bus resembles an early first-generation split-window bus, but there are a few tell-tale signs that differentiate it from a genuine German orientated split window bus. ALSO READ: Classic cars share the limelight with new technologies One of these differences is that the budget-orientated Fleetline had the large VW badge pressed into the metal on the nose, whereas earlier German-spec split-screen buses (assembled here in South Africa 1955-1967) had separate large VW metal badges affixed to the nose. Ed: Stuart is a journo friend and well respected for his knowledge and love of wheels considered classic. 