 SABIE -Constant water shortages, electricity interruptions, potholes, refuse in the streets and overgrown vegetation are just some of the issues this community has raised concerns about in town. People said some of these problems can be attributed to the corruption in the tender processes and the municipality failing to do its job. ALSO READ:All Sabie roads re-opened after protest Elsie van Douwe, DA Ward 7 councillor, said the community was now fed up of not having a regular water supply. “All the pipes have been refurbished and pumps replaced, but we are still in the same predicament. We are even worse off because all the work done at a great expense was not done properly. We suspect a lot of corruption was also involved in the tender processes,” Van Douwe said. “Thaba Chweu Local Municipality (TCLM) is completely failing us and has done so for years.” She added that when members of the community enquired about the problems, they were simply told that the municipality was working on it. “They work on it, then it functions for a day or two and then it stops again. They either do not have the right tools or they do not have the spares. They always have an excuse or a problem,” she explained. She also raised her concern about the constant electricity interruptions.
“There is always an issue with electricity and we have come to expect that a consistent, uninterrupted supply is a pipe dream. Not to mention the Eskom account which is ever increasing as no effort is made to pay it. Illegal connections and bypassed meters are blamed but no action is taken by the municipality to sort this out. We are once again threatened with load-shedding and maybe even total disconnection. And who suffers? Those who diligently pay their accounts,” Van Douwe said. ALSO READ:BREAKING NEWS: Shootout after bank robbery in Sabie
She said cleaning and maintenance are also not done properly. “There is always rubbish and roads’ open areas have been overgrown with vegetation. The roads in Sabie are also a disaster, there are potholes everywhere and there are even sections in the roads that do not exist anymore. Patching is done at a great expense, but it does not last. “The bottom line is that nothing is ever done properly and instead of improving, the situation is getting worse. There are ‘for sale’ signs everywhere in town because people have lost faith in the municipality and want to get out. “When the community complains to the officials they pass the blame and tell them that the councillors are failing to do their duty. Meanwhile the municipality is failing the councillors by not doing their jobs. “In one of the towns a councillor got beaten up by community members. The fault lies with the lazy and corrupt officials who are not doing their work. They spend their time enriching themselves and driving their expensive, flashy cars. Sabie is tired and we want this municipality or government to be replaced so that the town can be brought back to it’s former beauty,” said Van Douwe.
Themba Sibiya, communications officer at TCM, did not respond to Lowvelder’s enquiry.