 As we approach the festive season, International Relations and Cooperation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu have expressed serious concern about South Africans being arrested and detained across the world. In a statement released on December 12, 2018, the minister stated that of the more than 800 South Africans who are in prisons across the world, around 21% of them are in South America detained for drug-related charges.  Over 98 South Africans were detained in China for visa-related violations during the past six months. At this stage 23 of them remain in detention in China while police investigations are continuing. Earlier this year, more than 100 young South Africans who travelled to teach English in China, were detained, cautioned or questioned regarding visa violations.  Regarding the recent case of  Ms Tristan-Lee Niemand, the Department has been informed that she entered China on a short-stay study visa. She was arrested on November 16, on suspicion of working illegally in China by teaching English. The investigation by the Chinese Public Security Bureau into her case is still continuing.  Chinese regulations in the Jiangsu Province states that no consular visits or telephone calls are allowed to detainees while the matter is still under investigation. The Department of International Relations and Cooperation(DIRCO) is in regular contact with her mother and will keep the family informed of any developments.  The Minister calls on travelling South Africans to register with DIRCO or with the South African diplomatic missions abroad. Unfortunately, they will not be able to get them out of prison and cannot intervene with the judicial process. “It is very disconcerting that many South Africans are being arrested or detained abroad. We call on South Africans to make sure that they have the right travelling documents and correct visas where applicable. They should also know the location and contact details of the South African embassies, high commissions and consulates in the countries they are visiting,” – Sisulu  The Minister added that she will engage her Chinese counterpart on the number of young South Africans being arrested and detained in China. “Young people who seek to teach in China must make sure that they consult the Chinese Embassy and verify the agents who are arranging their travel. The responsibility to ensure they have the correct visa for working abroad still rests with the individual.” All travelling South Africans must know the Department’s 24-hour number 012-351-1000.