 MBOMBELA – A peaceful weekend morning was disturbed by a modern-day version of cowboys and crooks on Saturday, when a firefight broke out between security officers and would-be robbers on the R40. Two of the three suspects were arrested, and one was injured in the leg. The other fled and remained on the loose at the time of going to press. They allegedly tried to rob a man at an ATM at the Shell Garage at Halls Gateway on the N4 at around 07:45. According to Hi-Tech operations manager, Callum MacPherson, one of their reaction officers assisted the victim. Dirk Steyl, who was off-duty, heard the man screaming for help. He then saw three men getting into a
silver Polo. According to MacPherson, Steyl, in his private vehicle, along with another reaction officer in a Hi-Tech vehicle, followed the Polo and chased it through the city. The holster of a gun was found the suspects’ vehicle. They were assisted by a reaction officer and a guard supervisor from Divergent Ops.
Divergent Ops spokesman Jacques Meiring said the chase came to a stop on the R40 towards Barberton near Calvary Assembly. The Hi-Tech team then called for back-up. One of the suspects allegedly started shooting at the security vehicles that had gathered on the scene. Steyl reportedly returned fire. According to Meiring, one of the men was wounded in the leg by one of the bullets. ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Gunfire on R40 after alleged ATM robbery Meiring said he alerted the police, who arrived at the scene within minutes. Two suspects were arrested while allegedly trying to get into the vehicle of a passerby. The armed suspect ran into the bush. Nelspruit police spokesman, Capt Zandile Gqawa, said they were aware of the shootout, but could not confirm whether the robbery victim had opened a case yet. It is unclear what was stolen from him or when the suspects would appear in court. Tourists on their way to Mozambique for a holiday were robbed on Monday morning after they stopped on the side of the N4 to have something to eat. Bennie Haliday, who was travelling with his wife and two children in the car, were accosted by four unknown men driving a silver hatchback Volkswagen Polo. “We had stopped to get some cold drink out for the children and something to eat at around 08:30, when I noticed a vehicle had stopped behind us. It happened so fast. ALSO READ: VIDEO: CIT robbers hit Fidelity vehicle in Mbombela One man tried to get into my driver’s seat and my daughter started to shout. I went towards him and fought with him. He grabbed my watch but I managed to get it back. Another man went around to where my wife was and grabbed her handbag. She tried to get her handbag away from him, which contained our money and our passports.” The four suspects managed to get the handbag and flee the scene. “I am currently at the police station in Matsulu with my wife. We are opening a case. The police say they might be able to help us with documents for the border so we can still get to our destination as everything is booked already. We are on our way to Inhambane, which should take a few days.”