 That the Swift was named one of the top-three finalists in the World Urban Car of the Year competition means the aforementioned hashtag is not so far-fetched, don’t you think? I do! The new Swift is bigger – to be more specific, wider but shortened, which enhances its perceived lower stance and more masculine impression. The larger grill with fog lamps right on the outer edges of the air dam renders a much bolder front end without being aggressive. The wraparound light clusters at the rear synchronise perfectly with the shoulder line to display a wider, bolder and more spacious reality. The front and centre pillars have been blacked out and the rear door handles have been moved to the blacked-out section of the C-pillars. With the less angular shoulder line, renders the side panels softer but still adding to the large exterior impression. The boot is deep and certainly provides more space than many of its competitors. Large windows and lower seats create interior space. In fact, with the driver’s seat set for my six-foot frame, I had a good four inches of space between my knees and the rear of the driver’s seat in the back. Brownie points to the Suzuki designers.  The centre console is slightly turned towards the driver which also makes good ergonomic sense, as it enhances the experience of comfort and care towards driver and passenger. I would, however prefer to have a height-adjustment option – at least on the driver seat. With D-shaped steering, firm and deep bucket-like seats, one would probably experience less discomfort on long drives. The Swift offers electric windows, a full complement of controls on the steering and a bright instrument cluster. It also has Bluetooth, an adequate sound system and plenty of storage spaces throughout the car. We loved it – not too bright but not boring either – just right! All derivatives of the new Swift are fitted with a 1,2-litre engine producing 61kW and 113Nm linked to either a five-speed manual or AMT gearbox. I drove the AMT, but then was also offered the opportunity to take the manual on a short drive. The engine may be small, but it most certainly does not lack ability. Most owners will be delighted with its performance. The car’s road behaviour is firm due to its new and more rigid suspension platform, but it does not scare when one pushes it just a tad harder, through the corners. Driving the AMT requires some getting used to. Gentle and easy driving from standstill produces smooth, quiet gear changes. Push it a little harder and you will be annoyed. Why? Well, every time just before it actually switches gears, it will be as if you have dabbed the brakes. One soon realises though that if you lift the right foot just a tad, the changeovers are smoother. On the manual one experiences smooth and precise gearing and you can really push the engine revs. The AMT is fitted with a self-actuating clutch and also features a “creep” function to ease driving stop-and-go in traffic. You can also run the AMT in a manual mode, which gets a sportier performance from the engine.  Sporty, urban, family car? The Swift does it all. The Swift is a delightful car – and at just on R190 000 for the AMT with a host of luxury features, you will not go wrong. The brand has an excellent reputation for durability and resale value and, with a 4,9 litres/100km fuel index, you will enjoy its vibrancy and youthfulness. For more information and to book a test drive, contact Suzuki Nelspruit.    