 The three-row, midsize premium utility elevates Lincoln’s design vision while delivering on Quiet Flight, a key brand concept that supports tenets of beauty, gliding, human and a crafted sanctuary. Lincoln Aviator will be available globally, entering the highest volume segment in the US, the midsize luxury market, and the third-highest volume segment in China.  The Lincoln Aviator offers the kind of capability premium clients require in a three-row SUV, with available all-wheel drive and a choice of gas or hybrid powertrain. The standard twinturbocharged 3.0-litre V6 engine, paired with a 10-speed SelectShift automatic transmission, is expected to deliver an impressive 335kW for effortless acceleration.  With the hybrid option, Aviator Grand Touring’s twin-turbocharged engine and advanced electrified technology is targeted to deliver even greater levels of performance. “This is our most advanced hybrid technology,” says John Davis, chief program engineer, The Lincoln Motor Company.  ALSO READ: Take the risk out of buying a second-hand car “Together with the standard twin-turbocharged gas engine and advanced electrifi ed Grand Touring technology, Aviator is set to defi ne effortless performance – performance that only Lincoln can deliver.” Lincoln Drive Modes allow clients to further customize their drive experience, while a 12.3-inch standard configurable LCD instrument cluster confirms their choices with beautiful, easyto-read dynamic graphics and prompts.  In addition to Lincoln’s five signature settings – Normal, Conserve, Excite, Slippery and Deep Conditions – two new modes are engineered specifically for Lincoln Aviator Grand Touring. These modes, Pure EV and Preserve EV, allow clients to choose when and how to best use their electric energy, while an enhanced Excite mode helps maximize performance. Aviator delivers a wealth of intuitive technologies designed to assist the driver while enhancing the overall experience of the journey.  Right from the start, its suspension system automatically lowers the vehicle to “greet” the driver, adding a new level of sophistication to Lincoln’s signature welcome lighting embrace. The convenience of this feature makes loading cargo easier as well. Phone As A Key offers additional amenities. Drivers can recall individual preferences for adjusting seat, mirror and steering column positions.  Comfort and entertainment settings can be activated through the feature as well. If owners want to loan their Aviator to a family member or friend, the technology makes that equally effortless too, as up to four “keys” are provided with each vehicle in addition to the standard smart key fob. ALSO READ: An SUV that makes its driver one with the car Should a phone battery go dead, a passcode can be entered on the standard exterior keypad to gain entry, then a backup code can be entered on the center touch screen to start and drive the vehicle.  If a phone is lost or stolen, Phone As A Key can be easily deleted, providing additional peace of mind for clients. Also new to Lincoln is an available technology that enables Aviator to “see” most potholes or uneven pavement and immediately make suspension adjustments to keep the ride as smooth as possible. Adaptive Suspension with Road Preview uses an advanced forward camera to constantly scan the road, seamlessly adjusting the suspension as needed.  All Lincoln vehicles come standard with a suite of driver-assist features known as Lincoln Co-Pilot360. With the arrival of Lincoln Aviator, Lincoln’s most advanced suite of driver-assist technologies will be available in a new upgrade aptly named Lincoln Co-Pilot360 Plus. The boundless allure of flight has long inspired automotive design, and the all-new Lincoln Aviator takes that inspiration to the next level.  “The connotations of flight are intrinsic in the lines of the vehicle,” says David Woodhouse’s views on luxury. “Luxury is about creating something you didn’t know was possible,” he says. “It requires a certain degree of mystery, seduction and allure – factors that are decidedly in play with Aviator.”  Lincoln Aviator’s iridescent Flight Blue exterior colour on display in Los Angeles complements its flowing lines. Lincoln’s signature grille is executed in high-gloss black and chrome accents that beckon the eye, while a wrap-around windshield completes the aviation-inspired theme. The Aviator’s spacious, airy cabin accentuates horizontal lines, minimizing visual clutter to deliver a soothing sanctuary. An available Revel Ultima 3D Audio System recreates an authentic concert-hall experience by immersing occupants in rich, superior sound emanating from 28 speakers throughout the cabin. Available Perfect Position seats with Active Motion offer 30-way adjustability, massage capability and additional lumbar support for the driver and front-row passenger for paramount comfort, while flexible second-row seats recline, adjust fore and aft, and slide forward for easy access to the third row.  The third row provides ample seating with plenty of room left over for cargo, assuring nothing and no one is left behind. Other convenient features include an available wireless phone charging pad located in the front-row center armrest, while a handy media bin is available for the front-row passenger. Multiple power outlets throughout the cabin and a standard Wi-Fi hotspot keep occupants connected wherever the journey may take them. “At Lincoln, we’re always thinking about the next, best way to elevate luxury for our clients,” says Falotico. “Aviator arrives at this perfect intersection – where strength and beauty meet performance and technology.” Source: Netcarshow.com