 The latter’s product offering has grown significantly in both range and the technology it employs. It is therefore, important for customers to know that when they buy a Mahindra, the after-sales service will synchronize with this growth as well as the cost of their investment. Mahindra has instituted a Global Tekfest competition, the purpose of which was to test the skill set of both service and diagnostic technicians and service advisers. ALSO READ: Mahindra Nelspruit is here to excite, delight and deliver Participation was compulsory for all 73 local Mahindra dealerships and it started with an online test for all Etek and Cotek technicians. Those who made the cut were then subjected to more vigorous theoretical and practical testing at the Mahindra South Africa training centre in Pretoria. Mahindra Nelspruit’s service adviser, Tainya Büser eventually finished fifth overall. Not too shabby considering that her career as a service adviser only started in April. “It is quite a stressful environment to work in,” said Tainya. “It’s all about knowing the product and consistent communication with customers. Fortunately, I love both cars and people. And I am supported and surrounded by a most wonderful team.” Five years from now? “Oh, I want to be the service manager.” Ettienne Jacobs, who competed in the Cotek category (top), eventually finished in the top six and won a gold award. He then proceeded to also win gold in the Africa Continental round where the top 10 technicians in Africa competed against each other. ALSO READ: Experience the new Mahindra KUV100 in virtual reality He will now compete against the best in the world in February 2019. This final leg of the Global Tekfest will take place in India. Ettienne has been a technician for some 20 years and started with Mahindra in 2005. “This is such an honour and has taught me that one is never too old or too long with a particular product to learn more. Learning is hard work. “I look forward to compete with the best in the world,” he said. “Ettienne is curious by nature and this compels him to always explore more so as to really understand and resolve whatever technical problem presents itself,” said Mahindra Nelspruit DP, Cas Kolbé. “And often, diagnostics requires a back-to-basics approach. So this meticulous approach to problem-solving is adding tremendous value to our service offering at Mahindra Nelspruit,” said Cas. And while we are at it – Hein le Roux has returned to Mahindra Nelspruit as the sales manager. “I have gone full circle. “Started with Mahindra many years ago and here I am again. But seriously – at the pace the Mahindra brand is growing, it offers many exciting opportunities to grow and expand the brand’s footprint in the Lowveld,” said Hein.