 Teenage pregnancies are on the rise in Mpumalanga. Statistics issued to the DA by the MEC for the Department of Health, Sasekani Manzini, shows that 5 609 babies were born to mothers younger than 18 years in the province’s health facilities in 2017/18.  “All three districts in Mpumalanga showed an increase in teenage pregnancies,” said Jane Sithole, DA provincial leader. In Ehlanzeni District Municipality in 2016/17 there were 3 082 teenage pregnancies. In 2017/18 it increased to 5 897. In Gert Sibande in 2016/17 there were 1 399 and this increased to 2 601 the following year. In Nkangala District Municipality 1 128 occurred in 2016/17. In 2017/18 the number went up to 1 517.  Yet, the department issued different statistics to Lowvelder. According to Dumisani Malamule, spokesman for the department, they have noted an increase of only 2,4 per cent teenage pregnancy from September 2017 to 2018. When queried on the difference, he promised to respond with an explanation, but still had not done so more than a week later. Malamule said the department conducts campaigns to raise awareness about teenage pregnancy. “The department collaborated with the Department of Education to implement their sexual reproductive programme. Our campaigns and awareness programmes include Mayihlasele Izazi, a project for empowering boys and girls who are 19 years old and a partnership with LoveLife,” he said. Spokesman for the provincial Department of Education, Jasper Zwane, said pregnancies among school pupils have shown a decrease. “This is when comparing last year and the current one,” he said. A total of 13 learners in the province’s boarding schools were reported to be pregnant in August. Three are from eMakhazeni, five from Ezakheni and five from Izimbali Boarding School. During a recent oral question-and-answer session in the provincial legislature, MEC for education Sibusiso Malaza said teenage pregnancy was a social problem. Zwane explained that the learners fell pregnant when they were home during school holidays. “This happens when they are under the care of their parents. The security arrangements in our boarding schools are such that it may be difficult for learners within the boarding school to engage in sexual relationships within the premises.  “The setup is such that boys and girls are not accommodated in the same buildings. They have separate hostels. Both hostels are under strict supervision,” Zwane added. “We have various programmes that educate learners on sexual and reproductive health. These include peer education programmes,” said Zwane.