 The provincial Department of Health’s troubles continue to deepen. The department’s budget was cut by R88 million during the provincial budget adjustment in November. According to the appropriation bill, Emergency Medical Services’ (EMS) budget was reduced by R23,9 million, R59,9 million was taken away from the District Health-care Services, Provincial Hospital Services lost R30,6 million and Central Hospital Services’ budget was reduced by R9,5 million.  The Health Sciences and Training programme, responsible for training nurses and EMS students, will lose R13,3 million, despite a clear shortage of health-care workers in the province. The DA has warned that this will exacerbate the already poor service provided by the department. Rob Ferreira Hospital still does not have an operational laundry. According to department spokesman, Dumisani Malamule, the hospital spends approximately R25 000 per month on fuel for transporting the dirty linen to other hospitals to have it cleaned and dried. The laundry was supposed to be completed in February. The department said it is now 95 per cent complete and will be operational by March 31. According a source with intimate knowledge of the laundry, they sometimes have to cancel surgeries due to insufficient linen. During a visit by the newspaper no clean linen was available. Patients have raised concerns about their linen not being changed. The department denied this. The area earmarked for the new laundry is located on the the lower ground floor of the nurses’ quarters. The roof leaks and it looks like a storage room. Some doors have mould due to the water on the floor. Last month Malamule confirmed that engineers had declared the building unsafe and in need of renovations. At the moment the three 36-kilogram laundry machines and two driers acquired for the laundry are stored in the adjacent doctors’ quarters. “When we take laundry to other hospitals they already have their own laundry to do so we have to wait for them to finish,” said the source who requested to remain anonymous for professional reasons. “This results in the team sent to do the laundry working overtime. Worse, they are not paid for the extra hours because there is no money to pay them. “They have to travel more than 400 kilometres to get it washed in Bethal and then get it ironed and sterilised in Barberton Hospital, which is about 100 kilometres to and from Mbombela. They also go to Bushbuckridge at Matikwane Hospital.” In Rob Ferreira, there are about 461 beds with five pieces of linen per bed. “There is unwashed linen packed in a storeroom and they have to choose just what they need for the time being while we solve the problem. It has been like this for months. A hospital as big as Rob Ferreira needs at least a 90-kilogram laundry machine and not the 36-kilogram provided,” he added. Kyle Oliver, the DA ward councillor, said he is extremely disappointed in how the department is overseeing Rob Ferreira. “The state in which our people are treated and the conditions they are exposed to are totally unacceptable. The morale of the staff is at a low. The patients who go there don’t receive the level of attention owed to them. My heart goes out to the staff and patients. ALSO READ:Patient care is plunging to new depths We have hard-working staff there who continue to strive to do their best. It is a great pity that the department has failed to ensure that all the staff members have the correct tools and equipment to complete their day-to-day duties expected from them by the very department that fails to equip them,” said Oliver. Other hospitals are not faring much better. A woman recently collapsed after she waited several hours to receive treatment at Themba Hospital. Tshepo Mathibela, a patient and eyewitness, said he got the shock of his life when he saw the woman collapse from pain after having waited for hours to be assisted.  A video of the incident shows the woman laying on the floor with an unidentified man trying to help her. Other waiting patients can be heard questioning the long waiting periods. Malamule said they didn’t know who the woman was. “Maybe if we managed to get her name and contact details we will be able to respond. What we saw in the video was a woman collapsing at Themba Hospital. Some of the people who go to hospitals have epilepsy and some suffer from chronic diseases such diabetes. “Those who have chronic diseases have to take their medication and if they do not it may result in them collapsing. It is sometimes impossible to determine that a person has epilepsy by looking at them. “When patients arrived at the hospital the nurses use our method of determining who will be assisted first. If it is not a life-threatening situation they will not be attended immediately, the nurses prioritise those whose lives are at risk,” he said. ALSO READ:UPDATE: Main gate to Rob Ferreira Hospital reopens following protest action Mathibela said the nurses answer their cellphones while they are supposed to be attending to the patients. “I wonder if they are really qualified for this job because they are not following the Batho Pele principles. They sit there drinking juice, chatting while we wait,” he said. He added that they spelled his name wrong which caused him to wait for hours just to be attended. “They kept calling out Mathebula while my surname is Mathibela and after that it took another five hours to receive medication from the pharmacy.” Last Thursday patients at Rob Ferreira Hospital were also complaining of this slow service at the dispensary. One elderly woman had resorted to sleeping on the floor. Some said they had been waiting since early in the morning but late in the afternoon had still not received their medication. The department said that it would allocate a queue marshal because in most cases delays are contributed to poor control of the queues. Jane Sithole, provincial DA leader, said the budget cuts would severely hamper services. “The department had budgeted to buy another 17 ambulances, however, with this massive budget cut it is unlikely that this will happen. It will place further strain on clinics which are already struggling to cater to their communities because of staff, equipment and medicine shortages. According to the health department, no new staff will be appointed in this quarter, meaning the dire situation in the province’s clinics will only get worse,” Sithole said. “MEC Sasekani Manzini’s department has made no effort to ensure efficient spending. Neither tertiary hospital in Mpumalanga has laundry facilities and there is a severe shortage of specialists, medical equipment and consumables. “The training programme will lose R13,3 million despite the clear shortage of health-care workers in the province. This is the only programme that is not struggling financially, the health department’s second quarter report for the 2018/19 financial year shows that there has been mismanagement of this programme’s bursary system,” said Sithole.
Malamule attributed delays at local hospitals to an influx of patients. “We have a serious challenge in which the public skips the primary healthcare such as clinics and prefer to start by going to the hospital. When they arrive the nurses will have to attend to emergencies and this leads to them waiting in the queue for so many hours