 The last thing you want to worry about when you go away on holiday is the safety of your house. “We have all had a long and tough year and it is only natural to want to relax and drop your guard. Unfortunately, this is exactly what opportunistic criminals are depending on,” said Charnel Hattingh, national marketing and communications manager at Fidelity ADT. Photography by Jeremy Glyn for CFPR/ADT in October2018. Hattingh gave the following tips to help keep your house secure this festive season: 1. Ensure that your alarm is in working order. December is traditionally a busy period for security companies, so homeowners should test their alarms at least three weeks before going on holiday. Should the system require servicing, this should be arranged as early as possible. 2. Ensure there are no gaps in your fence or unintentional points of access to your home that may need additional security. 3. Connecting outdoor lights to timers and motion sensors act as an additional deterrent. ALSO READ: Crossing the Lebombo Border to Mozambique this festive season 4. Two weeks before you leave for your holiday, advise your security company of your holiday plans. Should an incident happen while you are away, it is essential that they have the following updated information: all key holder information and details of domestic workers, gardeners or house-sitters who may be staying on the property while you are away. 5. Inform your neighbours and neighbourhood watch of your holiday plans so that they can keep an eye on your property while you are away.  6. Stop all newspaper and other deliveries if applicable and arrange that someone collects your post while you are away. A bulging postbox is a clear indication that you are not home. 7. If you have hired a house-sitter, teach them how to use your alarm system correctly. 8. Make sure that all bushes or trees close to your doors and garage are trimmed, to avoid the possibility of intruders hiding behind them. ALSO READ: Vehicles’ roadworthiness and drivers’ fitness a priority this festive season 9. Be discreet when packing your car. Do so behind closed doors and if possible, in your garage. 10. Do a quick once-over before you leave on holiday. Double-check that you have locked and secured all windows and doors. Sliding doors can be secured simply by placing a piece of timber cut to size in the sliding rail. Don’t leave ladders, spades or tools outside as these can be excellent break-in tools. Ensure that all valuables and remote controls for automatic gates and garage doors are not left lying around.