 The RR Cup and Bridgestone Challenge are due to post close and fast racing on machines from the 1980s up to today’s ultra-fast machines. Spectators are in for a great day of treats as there are also some planned demonstrations from classic racers and period machines to be included as a drawcard. The pioneer DJ Run machines were first run in a flat-out race from Durban to Johannesburg on public roads from 1913 and they are planning to show a full grid up to 1934 machines, when the race was ended. This pack of BSA Empire Stars, Velocettes and other long-forgotten bike makers will step back in time to honour in South Africa’s golden two-wheeled past.  The day will also play host to motor racing commentator Roger McCleery who was awarded the order of merit for his long and illustrious service as both a commentator and a racing reporter on the radio and in other media.  Through the day’s racing the organisers are set to bring back to Zwartkops a list of invited national champions and overseas grand prix competition champions. Here are just some of the champions of yesteryear to be invited to strut their stuff at the event: Keith Zeeman, Les van Breda, Allen North, Dave Peterson, Rory Nesbit, Shane Nesbit, Jimmie Guthrie, Mike Boon, Simon Fourie, Kevin Hellier, Horace Bergstrom, Gerry Onassis, Jimmy Whyte, Mike Grant, Peter Ekerold, Tiny Mariner and many more.  These former greats will be carried out to the track on machines from the earliest days of grand prix racing delivering the banshee wail of two stroke racers, from the forgotten era and the big banger production racers from the ’60s in the form of Norton Manx, Matchless G50 and a pair of works Honda RC 163 and 188 Hailwood tribute machines, all set to deliver a wall of sound long forgotten from over 70 years ago.  The Team Incomplete organising committee are hard at it to punctuate the day’s races with added nostalgic two wheeled activities. Save the date to relive South Africa’s golden age of two-wheeled racing at Zwartkops Raceway.