 The newly crowned Mrs Africa Globe 2019, Lucia Ochan, will represent Africa during Mrs Globe in China. The local businesswoman also won the title of Mrs Africa first princess and in the Face of Africa category, she won second princess, award for Best Interview and an Integrity Award. The finale was held on Saturday at the ATKV Buffelspoort Resort in North West. Ochan spent a week with other participants before the judges crowned the winner. They enjoyed tours arranged by Tourism Friendly South Africa and at the end of the week the winners were announced at a gala dinner. Mrs Africa is a pageant that unites 54 countries. ALSO READ:Mrs Africa finalist make a mark Ochan is looking forward to competing on a global stage. During an interview with Lowvelder, Ochan said she still cannot believe that she won the title of Mrs Africa Globe. “When I arrived at the venue and I met other participants, I started telling myself that I am willing to get just any title so when they called my name it came as a surprise. And getting the other awards was also really amazing,” she said. While preparing for the finale she faced challenges that she managed to overcome. “The person who was busy with my portfolio left before we completed it and I had to get a new person who had to start fresh. We had to put together everything that was done for the past months in just a few weeks. It was hard and it was also a learning curve for me. I am glad that we made it at the end. ”  Ochan said this pageant is not just about beauty, it is about uplifting the community and women who want to make a difference. “I did various project in the community for me to be given the titles that I got over the weekend. I launched the Emphakatsi-iNdlovukati (She Elephant) project. I partnered with rural women to uplift, empower and develop the community. I want them to be able to start sustainable projects. The plan is that they should be able to design products and still be able to sell it themselves,” she explained. Her focus is also on cancer awareness.”We need to do awareness in the rural areas so that people can be aware of life-threatening diseases.We need to educate everyone, so that when something is wrong they should be able to see it and then go visit a doctor. “Ochan said she made it because of the support she got from people around her. “My husband, kids, family, friends and various stakeholders really supported me a lot these past months.The local media also played a role. I am truly grateful for everything they did for me,” she said. She is also a businesswoman, owner of the OT Deyo Med Aesthetic Clinic, founder and patron of the Lucia O Foundation, and participates on numerous councils and chambers within the community.