 Ehlanzeni Chess’ players are preparing for the annual South African Junior Chess Championships (SAJCC) from December 16 to 20 at Boksburg. As part of the preparations the players were recently in a training camp.
Teams from all regions across the country will participate in this event. Ehlanzeni Chess is sending 12 teams to compete this year, four of which are girls’ teams. ALSO READ:Chess takes centre stage “Our players and coaches worked extremely hard during the four training camps to prepare for this prestigious tournament. A big thank you to Curro Nelspruit for making their classrooms available to us for these camps. Players aged eight to 18 will fly the Ehlanzeni Chess flag high,” said Danielia van Heerden, secretary of Ehlanzeni Chess.  Alexander Maartens, from Hoerskool Sybrandt van Niekerk in Sabie, will receive his honours this year for representing Ehlanzeni Chess at the SAJCC for his 10th year. “We are very grateful to Alexander for the dedication and hard work that he puts into chess. He has done us proud every year and he is one of our stars.” Van Heerden said there is another player who will take the number-one position in the u/20 team: candidate master Banele Mhango (16). ALSO READ:Ehlanzeni’s best chess players compete in Benoni “We are very sure that the young star from Msogwaba will collect seven points for his team. Banele has just returned from the u/16 Olympiads in Turkey. The candidate master played eight rounds against the best u/16s that the world had to offer. He managed to win two, draw three and lose three. We are extremely proud of his achievements and
we believe that the sky is the limit for this young man.” “Playing chess overseas is so important for any player of this calibre. They need the experience and exposure of the level of chess played outside of South Africa, but it is incredibly expensive,” she explained. “The Children Matter Organisation paid for Banele’s flights, Kolano Consulting paid for his registration fees and Dr Mavuso of KaNyamazane Medical Centre paid for his travel costs from Msogwaba to OR Tambo and back. We want to thank these organisations and individuals as well as Eddie Bhila, his managers, for their dedication in supporting sport development in the community. We would like to urge all other organisations which would like to get involved, to email info@ehlanzenichess.co.za,” said Van Heerden.