 MBOMBELA – A “perfect storm” of a serious canal break and load-shedding resulted in large parts of Mbombela being without water for the better part of the weekend, and well into Monday. Stonehenge, West Acres and Sonheuwel areas were most seriously constrained, with Bateleur and The Rest still struggling with supply on Monday morning. READ MORE: Water shortages persist as reservoirs are filled up To add to residents’ frustration, they did not know what was happening.  The first bulk SMS which Sembcorp Silulumanzi sent out was on Sunday afternoon, after most people’s water had been restored. Instead everyone received conflicting messages from different WhatsApp and Facebook groups and very few people knew what was going on. Moreover, they were informed on Sunday that they must please pay their arrear accounts – from 2012. “It was chaos,” said Thea Rix, the resident water and electricity informant, who runs the Mbombela electricity and water information Facebook group. “Everybody gave us different information. They did not give feedback. They did not keep us updated. People get angry when they do not know what is going on. Even if nothing has changed, tell people.” Marius van Aardt, managing director of Sembcorp Silulumanzi, admits that communication to affected communities should have been done better. “Due to the prolonged nature of the incident, a bulk SMS was sent to all Mbombela customers. We agree it would have been better to send this message out earlier. We have learned from this.” According to Van Aardt, the break was a combination of erosion caused by hippos and illegal dumping in the canal.  How does the water supply work? Water is extracted from the Crocodile River by the Friedenheim Irrigation Board and Croc Valley Estates. Their separate canals run adjacent to one another, to Sembcorp Silulumanzi’s old and new water treatment works supplying Mbombela. Here water is purified and distributed to other reservoirs across Mbombela and White River.  What went wrong? On Friday morning the bank between the Friedenheim and Croc Valley canals broke. The sluices of the Crocodile River canal had to be closed while contractors from the Friedenheim Irrigation Board managed to put up a temporary bank. No water was entering the plant at this time. The temporary bank, however, allowed them to reopen the Croc Valley canal on Saturday. Sembcorp Silulumanzi’s raw water supply was thus greatly reduced. By Sunday morning they were able to reopen the Friedenheim canal. However, this did not solve the consumers’ problems.  Why did you need electricity to have water in this instance? “Usually load-shedding does not affect the water supply as we make use of the storage capacity of reservoirs,” Van Aardt explained. However, due to load-shedding the refilling of the almost empty reservoirs was delayed. Sembcorp Silulumanzi’s main plants are on the Delta electricity line. “We could only pump water at a reduced rate,” explained Marius van Aardt, managing director of Sembcorp Silulumanzi. “At 19:00 we had load-shedding, so we were only able to switch the pumps on at around 23:00.” This allowed them to start refilling the reservoirs. Sembcorp Silulumanzi only started pumping water at full capacity at around 13:20 on Sunday. On Sunday morning, some other areas experienced load-shedding, leaving them unable to pump water from the reservoirs located in these areas. High-lying areas were then likely to have supply issues first, as the supply works under gravity. These are also the areas to have supply restored last.  What now? On Monday Friedenheim’s contractor installed temporary pipes in the Friedenheim canal for the water to continue to flow while the contractor widened the bank and cleaned debris dumped in the canal illegally. Twice a year they walk the entire canal to see where maintenance is needed. “We do maintenance, but remember that we have to switch off the water to be able to give the machines access.” Over the years the bank has narrowed. They claim that building rubble from adjacent construction work altered the flow of the water, which eroded the bank faster.  Van Aardt pointed out that the maintenance of the infrastructure of the canal was solely the responsibility of the Friedenheim Irrigation Board and they would be engaging them and the municipality to prevent a reoccurence. “There are still some free roaming hippos in the river that frequently roam the canals as well, causing erosion to the banks. This will be factored into our discussions. “Although it is a bit of an attraction to have free roaming hippos in the river, they are dangerous animals and their impact on the canal has to monitored closely.” ALSO READ: Name of victim who died in plane crash released