 ELUKWATINI – The case of a 20-year-old man accused of killing a 21-year-old man was postponed to December 6 for formal bail application. Manqoba Masina (20) appeared in the Eerstehoek Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. Masina, along with a 16-year-old who cannot be named because he is a minor, was arrested by the Elukwatini police in the early hours of last Sunday. According to Elukwatini spokesman, Sgt Peace Mbokane, the arrest came as police acted on information which linked the duo to the killing of Mfundo Mmeli Sangweni (21). “Apparently, the deceased was out with his friends at a local liquor outlet, situated in Nhlazatshe Extension 3 on the night of Saturday November 24. “As they were walking to another tavern, they were attacked by a group, who chased them. As they ran away, they scattered in different directions. It is alleged that some of the deceased’s friends managed to find hiding places, but the deceased was not that lucky,” said Mbokane. He said the chasers outran Sangweni and cornered him as he landed in a ditch in the open veld. Read More: Fight over beer ends with death “They jumped into that ditch and assaulted the victim, stabbing him with knives on his face and head. When they realised that he was losing consciousness, they dragged him out of the ditch and left him near the river.” The following morning, the victim’s family realised that he had not come home and filed a missing person’s report at the police station. “As the officers assisted the family, a community member who was tending his cattle called the station and informed them about the discovery of a body near the river. The police visited the scene and took the family along to see if it was the person they had just reported missing. “The deceased was then recognised by the family as their missing son,” Mbokane continued. He said their investigation led to the deceased’s friends, who were with him the previous night. “Some of Sangweni’s friends knew the two suspects who were chasing them the night before and divulged their names to the police. Masina and the minor were arrested a day later. The minor was released to the care of his parents to attend the Child Justice Court,” said Mbokane. Masina briefly appeared in the Eerstehoek Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday to answer on the charge of murder. He was remanded in custody until his reappearance before the same court on December 6 for a formal bail hearing.