 MBOMBELA – One person has died and 47 have been injured on the Lowveld roads since Thursday evening. This is according to a head count by Emer-G-Med and Hi-Tech medical services, although both admit that there might have been more. According to Emer-G-Med spokesman, Martin Jeffrey, the fatality occurred when a driver lost control of his vehicle in KaNyamazane across from the Assembly of God church early on Sunday morning. Jeffrey said that the driver was already deceased when they arrived at the scene.
Thirteen people were injured in a crash on the R40 late on Saturday evening. The accident that happened in Pienaar. According to Jeffrey, a taxi was heading toward Mbombela from the R37 when it lost control. “A tanker truck that was driving on the R40 from White River was not able to avoid the taxi and then crashed into the carnage,” Jeffrey said. According to Hi-Tech paramedic Tristan van Huyssteen, the patients did not sustain major injuries and were transported to Kiaat and Rob Ferreira hospitals. ALSO READ: UPDATE: Driver involved in 15-fatality accident released on bail Just before this accident a vehicle lost control on the Kaapsehoop road close to Montana Nursery, where one patient sustained mild injuries, while ten people were injured in an accident in Pienaar on Saturday afternoon. Friday also saw 14 people being injured in a three-vehicle accident on the R538 outside Clifford Lodge at 17:10. “The driver of a taxi lost control and rolled the vehicle when it bumped into two other vehicles,” Jeffrey said. Van Huyssteen confirmed the accident, adding that one person was seriously injured while the others sustained mild to minor injuries. They were transported by Emer-G-Med, LifeMed, ER24 and Hi-Tech to Themba and Kiaat hospitals. The accident on the R40 and Samora Machel crossing. On Friday morning another four people were injured on the N4 between Elandshoek and Montrose when a taxi drove into the back of a truck due to poor visibility. On Thursday evening one person was mildly injured and four sustained minor injuries in an accident at the robot crossing at the R40 and Samora Machel Drive. Jeffrey suspects the causes of the majority of the accidents were reckless and negligent driving and urged motorists to be careful during the festive season. ALSO READ: Horrific R40 accident leaves four dead