 Putting this event together required a lot of organising, because all the farms we were riding on are working ones. So, a lot of fine-tuning went into planning this enduro. A total of five landowners were involved and farmers where still spraying their macs on the Friday afternoon. Thank goodness the landowners love riding bikes themselves.  Mayer Mac Farm supplied all the competitors with a packed of macadamia nuts in their riding bags. The pits were set out below the Killarney Guest House’s rolling lawn and indigenous trees. Please go to www.killarneyfarmhouse.co.za to get a glimpse. ALSO READ: Small track tests enduro riders’ skills A 35km loop was also part of the route. It required riders to cross a river no less than four times, while taking them through the most beautiful bush alongside these river crossings. And then, it was back to the hard stuff. The riders who took on the red loop had to complete four laps. This also where I spent most of my time time taking photos.  Unfortunately, I could not cover the pink loop. This route was set up for beginners, ladies and 65cc Hell’s angels. This was where Reece Lodewick and Ruben Flores of the 65 class gave it their all. After completing the four laps in the pink class, they also completed a green loop that was for the more experienced riders. They were followed by Maurice Reece’s dad to make sure that they got to the pits safe.  So well done, boys – you rode like champions. This was also a welcome return for KTM rider Dwayne Kleynhans, who took the podium this weekend after a long absence, recovering from an injury. ALSO READ: Last Imperial Nelspruit Toyota Hazyview Enduro shows moxie He finished fi rst in the Pro Elite class. Luke Walker came in second and Barend Erasmus took third. The overall championship was won by our local boy, Barend Erasmus.  Ladies winner this weekend, Amy Sutton was also crowned ladies champion for the year. Another local rider, Ryan Silver, fi nished second in the Pro Mini class and finished second overall in this class for the year. Silver unfortunately picked up an injury and had to sit out the Casterbridge race, costing him points. Lodewick, who was second, was crowned 65cc champion for the year.  Kwanyoni Lodge hosted the LEC for the weekend. It is set in the Citrus Valley of Alkmaar. Ed: My apologies to all and sundry – this was the last race for 2018 and not the Hazyview event that we published last week.