 SABIE – York Timbers remains non-operational as the company struggles to come to an agreement with the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa). Today marks exactly a month since workers at York Timbers downed tools on November 14. Lowvelder reported in September that York Timbers agreed to grant limited organisational rights to Numsa, despite that union having no standing in the Wood, Paper and Timber Bargaining Council. On the other hand, Essau Tau, Numsa regional secretary, claims the members went on strike because York management has denied them the right to be represented by the union of their choice. “Workers are being brutalised in the workplace. This vicious attack is being led by the chief executive officer, Piet van Zyl, who has made it his business to inflict maximum misery on workers, by denying them the right to be represented by the union of their choice,” said Tau. “We want the company to give the workers their rights of freedom of association to their union of their choice, which is Numsa. Van Zyl has demonstrated that he is a union basher, who is denying workers the right to join the union of their choice. We demand that he must be removed from his position as CEO,” said Tau. They are also demanding that workers who were dismissed due to strike action earlier this year be reinstated. “The company must reinstate the 47 employees whom were dismissed as a result of strike and the 253 employees who have received final written warnings as a result of the same action,” said Tau. Sixolile Msayi, York Timbers country manager, confirmed that the company issued notices of disciplinary action in November. “The employees walked out of the plants. At this stage we are doing our best endeavour at the appropriate forums to resolve the strike,” he said. Numsa is also demanding that York terminate the services of its security company, Phoenix Security. Tau said it has become evident that Phoenix is “a private army protecting the CEO and his cohorts”. During a previous round of strike action in September, protesters clashed with security. Security members were prevented from leaving the premises for a day. Read More: WATCH: Security and protesters clash at York Timbers At the time, York Timbers obtained a court interdict against the strikers, making it illegal for them to protest and obstruct others from going to work and back. Police spokesman, Brig Leonard Hlathi confirmed that four people were injured after security members shot at the crowd. Police could not confirm Tau’s latest claim that 11 members were shot at with live ammunition. Jandre Stander, Phoenix owner, said he knows nothing about all the allegations levelled against his company. “If is there any case against us, they must go and open a case with the SAPS,” he said
Gwilym Rees, chairman of the Sabie Rate Payers Association, said unions have a right to represent workers, but that other people have equal rights. “Everybody else has a right to go back to work and put food on the table. A lot of people want to work but are prevented, so they are not earning a salary. It is very unfair.” York supplies the building, construction and industrial markets countrywide with lumber and plywood products. The ongoing industrial action has started to affect several local retailers. According to Noelia Meneke, BUCO financial manager, they were forced to opt for alternative suppliers. “The ongoing strike has severely affected us as we use to get the bulk of our stock supply from York. But of late, we are no longer receiving enough stock from them and we have to seek alternative supply from other companies. “With the alternative suppliers, we are managing not to run out of stock on any items we used to receive from York,” said Meneke. Johann van Schalkwyk, manager for Timber City, said his business has been slightly affected by the York strike. “We have not been seriously affected. But we were forced to source products elsewhere to ensure that our customers’ demands are entirely met and remain normal. Fortunately, a very small part of my business relies on York stock,” said Van Schalkwyk. Tau said if the company management does not respond to their demands, the workers have resolved to continue to strike.