 Over the years the middleweight GS grew and even got an extra cylinder to boot. BMW recently launched their two new middleweight contenders in Cape Town: the F 750 and 850 GS. Don’t be fooled into thinking that the 750 is just a smaller-capacity version of the 850. Both models share the 853cc parallel twin engine, but the 750 gets a reworked cylinder head that reduces power to 57kw.  The 850 produces 70kw and slightly more torque. Where the 750 is aimed at the urban commuter, the 850 is geared towards the off-road rider. Where the previous generation GS had the tank fitted under the seat, the new model has the tank in the traditional position.  There is also a brand new frame with new suspension all round. BMW’s Electronic Suspension Adjustment (ES) is available as an option. The new model certainly feels a lot better than the outgoing model. The front now has a striking LED daytime running light and the new instrumentation is a full-colour TFT screen with Bluetooth connectivity.  According to BMW, connecting your Bluetooth devices is now simpler than ever. I rode the 850 GS on the first day of the launch. This model was fitted with knobblies on copper-coloured spoked wheels. Everything about the GS exudes that BMW quality feel. Existing BMW riders will feel right at home.  As this bike is intended as a go-anywhere globetrotter, I am happy to report that this bike comes with heated grips and cruise control. I enjoyed the clarity of the TFT display and the effortlessness of the Beemer going about its business. The route we covered did not include a lot of gravel, but did stop at Atlantis Dunes.  Only the bravest souls ventured onto the sand. On the second day I hopped onto the 750 GS and, oddly enough, I enjoyed the 750 more. Probably because we were riding in Cape Town traffic, where the lesser GS was in its element. The tyres fitted to the 750 also suited Clarence Drive much better!  Both bikes, on launch, were fitted with a quickshifter and I fail to see why you would need that on a bike in this category. Both models are immensely capable bikes and a huge step up from the previous model. If the 1200 GS looks a bit intimidating, you will be well advised to go and test-drive the brand new middleweight GSes. Prices start at R187 250, going up to R 199 950 depending on the model and colour scheme.