 Hundreds of learners from rural areas across the city commemorated the International Civil Aviation Day at the Nelspruit Airfield on Saturday. The international day was proclaimed by the United Nations (UN) in 1996 and urged governments, as well as national, regional, international and intergovernmental organisations, to observe it. The event is aimed at raising awareness regarding the importance of civil aviation.  The Assembly of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), a United Nations specialised agency, declared the day in 1992 to highlight and advance the benefits of international civil aviation. Observation of this day started on December 7, 1994, the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, which established ICAO. ALSO READ:VIDEO: Precision Piloting as Huey lands in Crossing Centre The day’s proceedings included a career expo, which aimed to teach students about the opportunities that they can choose from in the aviation sector. Among the attendees were the minister of transport, Blade Nzimande, and MEC for public works in Mpumalanga, Gillion Mashego with other dignitaries from the South African Civil Aviation Authority, such as Nivashnee Naraindath. Nzimande said the aviation sector still excludes those from poor and disadvantaged backgrounds.   “Some of the skills are very expensive to acquire. Like for instance, today your first 18 months of training as a pilot can guarantee you are not going spend less than R2 million. “I don’t know how many universities we can send students to with that amount, and many of our people who come from poor families do not have that amount. So that is why you still largely have pilots from the white community. We have asked the entities that are in our sector, like your ASCA, Civil Aviation Authority and air transport, to work towards starting a state-owned aviation academy,” said Nzimande. Mashego said these are exciting times for Mpumalanga. “This is a great opportunity for us to observe this special day. As a province we have not moved much in the aviation sector. With time we will plan, explore and increase the opportunities that are available. I’m glad the students came in their numbers. The workshops that we had earlier on equipped them in terms of teaching, that maths and science at school are essential if you want to pursue the aviation sector,” said Mashego.