 With thousands of South Africans embarking on local and international travel this festive season, worries about how to keep their luggage and valuables safe during the trip won’t be far behind. But because of dramatically improved security, the vast majority of bags will rejoin their owners intact after the aircraft lands. Additionally, there are a number of steps travellers can take for further peace of mind.  “The reputation of South African airports continues to improve following some years of criticism as a result of baggage theft and unprofessional ground services,” said Christian Faure, former Vice President Commercial of Menzies Aviation, which was responsible for ground handling services of a number of leading airlines locally and globally. Even though airports were notorious for baggage theft, baggage mishandling, poor on-time performance, poor safety and security and poor customer service, this has improved substantially over the last few years; however, he said passengers should still ensure that they keep their belongings as safe as possible by making these preparations: ALSO READ: Holiday Guide 2018 NEW 1) Make use of the baggage wrapping service. These services are readily available at most airports within South Africa. Some airlines, like SA Express, offer it as a value-added service at no additional charge to the passenger. 2) Clearly label all your baggage, and customise your luggage so that it stands out. This will also help limit the accidental removal of your suitcase from the carousel by someone with similar-looking luggage. Lock your bags.  3) Keep valuable items with you. Cellular and electronic devices are the most vulnerable. 4) Check airline tags to ensure correct destination, and make sure of where your luggage will be when transiting. Get to the carousel as soon as possible after landing. When arriving in SA from an international destination, you will need to clear customs first before rechecking your bags to a further domestic destination. 5) If you have golf clubs, oversized or boxed items, these are normally delivered at a separate area for fragile goods near the carousels. Ensure you keep the tags for these items in a safe place and don’t forget to claim your items before leaving the airport. ALSO READ: Holiday travel tips to avoid traffic jams and arrive safely 