 Use these quick, easy, and inexpensive ideas for reusing and repurposing Christmas decorations into your everyday decor so you can enjoy them year round: Mix shiny ornaments with natural elements like feathers, seashells or wooden ornaments in a grouping in white or clear glass to create a special display. Use decorations that you love, regardless of the subject matter, as accents around a room and to create a theme.  Knitted Christmas ornaments are fashionable now. Put them in a bowl to set a handmade theme to everyday decorations. ALSO READ:How to keep your child safe this festive season Hang a collection of non-holiday specific ornament like stars, angels, birds or hearts from a simple branch and enjoy them all year long. Suspend a light branch over a dining table, kitchen sink, or in the corner of a room and hang the collection like a mobile.  Mount flat Christmas decorations in frames or on canvases to create wall art.
Redecorate Christmas wreaths with other materials like burlap, plaid or polka dotted ribbon, to use all year long. Leftover silver, red and gold Christmas paper can work perfectly for a New Year’s Eve party. Cover everyday placemats with it to refresh a table design.
Save red and white holiday paper for Valentine’s Day and larger pieces of wrapping paperare a gold mine of drawer liners.  Use wrapping paper to craft a mailing envelope, embellish a note card or bows that can top gifts throughout the year.
If you don’t want to go to the trouble of arts and crafts, just shred it! It can act as table confetti for upcoming celebrations or as packing material.  Even Christmas trees can be put to good use.
Natural trees can be used to make mulch to regulate soil temperature and prevent water loss. Mulch can be used around trees and plants, and can even help keep weeds at bay.   Use the branches to make a bird feeder in your yard. Coat it in margarine or peanut butter and roll it in bird seed for a tempting bird snack.
Use the branches to make wreaths and garlands. Add scented pinecones and decor to enjoy year round.
Use the pine needles to make fragrant sachets. Use them yourself or give them as a gift.