 SKUKUZA – Three years of hard work, consulting and thinking should lead to a bigger and better-managed total conservation area. This is the vision and reason for the cooperative partnership agreement signed between SANParks and state and private reserves with the Greater Kruger area, as well as communal areas on the western border of the Kruger National Park. This agreement follows the establishment of the Greater Limpopo Transfrontier Park (GLTP) in December 2002, when the three heads of state of Mozambique, South Africa and Zimbabwe signed a treaty that made provision for the expansion of the GLTP by integrating the Limpopo National Park (LNP), KNP and Gonarezhou National Park (GNP). The signing ceremony took place in Skukuza last week. CEO of SANParks, Fundisile Mketeni said that the agreement seeks to address conservation matters and make the most of opportunities within the open system of the Great Limpopo Transfrontier Park (GLTP) and surrounding conservation areas. “The partnership is essential to ensure a uniform framework for the protection, management and socio-economic beneficiation of the open system conservation footprint, including the regularisation of the conservation area network,” he said. According to Mketeni, the KNP should benefit people in many ways. Apart from the purpose of conservation, it should also help to fight poverty and grow tourism. “There should be a national benefit from conservation, and the way we manage it should bring hope to neighbouring people too,” he said. Glenn Phillips, KNP managing executive, said that SANParks’ vision includes the connecting of societies. “A conservation area is not an island,” he said. “What happens outside our borders is also our concern. We now officially connect communities, the private sector and other conservation partners to make the Greater Kruger system bigger, more secure, and more relevant to the lives of people who live outside the park.” Participants that signed the agreement include Makuleke Contractual Park, Makuya Nature Reserve, Letaba Ranch, Gidjana Conservation Area, Balule Nature Reserve, Klaserie Nature Reserve, Timbavati Nature Reserve, Umbabat Nature Reserve, Thornybush Nature Reserves, Kempiana, Manyeleti, Sabi Sand Wildtuin, Mala Mala, Mjejane Game Reserve and the KNP. The implementation of the agreement will include efforts to get more entities alongside the western boundary of KNP to join the process. Contractual parks and other protected areas that would meet a set of minimum requirements, norms and standards of the Greater Limpopo Transfrontier Conservation Area (GLTFCA) can be included in future. These requirements include management issues like responsible tourism, financial sustainability, socio-economic development, wildlife security, disease management, sustainable utilisation, water use and alien plant clearing. Mketeni also said the GLTFCA aims to facilitate the optimising of social development opportunities within and adjacent to the Greater Kruger. “It will focus on cooperation in managing ecological issues, unlocking sustainable benefits, growing responsible economic development, and promoting compatible land-use practices within the GLTFCA,” he said. In that way local communities would be empowered to become part of the solution in issues such as wildlife crime. Several of the private parks involved in the signing expressed their trust in the agreement. “We had waited three years for this and are delighted that we can be officially part of this conservation model in future,” Sharon Haussmann, chairperson of the Balule Private Nature Reserve, said after signing the agreement. Balule was in the news very recently after an allegedly unethical elephant hunt in the reserve.