 MBOMBELA – During this year there were more protests than in 2017. This is according to Brig Leonard Hlathi, SAPS provincial spokesman. Lowvelder has compiled a list of the different protests that occurred this year. They varied from service strikes to protests against corruption allegations and lack of salary payments.    Unrest in KaNyamazane
After a severe hailstorm occurred in May this year, residents from KaNyamazane suffered severe damage to property. The local government said it would help them, but has dragged its feet concerning repairs. In August, angry protesters shut down the area and people struggled to get in and out. Residents wanted the local government to fix the damaged houses. For days they battled to go to work, affecting the city of Mbombela as well, where many residents work.
Protesters barricaded the roads and were dispersed with rubber bullets by the police. Residents living in the area reported hearing gunshots from before 07:00.
The situation took about two weeks to settle down. Not all the houses were fixed, although there is peace in KaNyamazane.  ALSO READ:BREAKING: Police disperse protesters with rubber bullets  Crowd calls for removal of Nelson Mandela statue Members of the National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu) picketed outside the Mpumalanga Provincial Legislature demanding that a recently unveiled Nelson Mandela statue be removed. The Nelson Mandela statue has raised many questions from the general public, as they say it looks nothing like Madiba. It is located outside the provincial legislature and was made to celebrate Madiba’s 100th birthday. The public, EFF, DA, Nehawu, provincial ANC Youth League (Ancyl) and Premier Refilwe Mtshweni raised dissatisfaction with regard to the statue. The premier said it “failed in its intended objective to pay homage to the legacy” of the former president and must be fixed. Mideast Investment was appointed the service provider for the statue, which cost R8,3 million. The company’s sole director is Mishkah Theron (25). The awarding took place in an open bid.
The Department of Culture, Sport and Recreation was tasked with erecting the six-metre-tall bronze statue.    Msholozi protests Some residents of the Msholozi settlement embarked on protest action demanding a primary and secondary school and a clinic to be built at the premises of the former Mama Esther’s Safe Haven.
Mama Esther’s Safe Haven was also set alight. The centre was closed after the Gauteng High Court, seated in Mbombela, ruled on January 29 that it must be closed. They blocked the road and the police fired tear gas at the protesters. Five suspects were arrested and appeared in the Nelspruit Magistrate’s Court on arson and public violence charges. One of them was Cllr Kenneth Mkhonto. Msholozi is under the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport and it lacks basic service infrastructure such as roads, water, sewage and electricity, as well as title deeds.
The City of Mbombela Local Municipality has been in the process of having Msholozi transferred to it for years. It is not clear why this has not been achieved. ALSO READ:UPDATE:Students block road to University of Mpumalanga    University of Mpumalanga
Students from the University of Mpumalanga (UMP) have been protesting for the past eight months. They blocked the road to the institution, demanding that management address their concerns. They accused management of corruption and nepotism. The situation at UMP has since gone from bad to worse. A police officer suffered a serious injury to his head when rocks were thrown at him by the students. Five people were arrested on that day for public violence. The final exams for 2018 were stopped for a week and resumed after the university set up a new timetable.
In August they stopped classes and blocked roads, demanding that management address their grievances. In September the university obtained an interdict against the Student Representative Council (SRC) and students to stop protesting and end the violence on the campus. They refused to do so and the president of SRC, Mcolisi Ngcamphalala, and Wandile Shabangu, the treasurer of the council and Mbombela CRC chairman, were suspended.
The university had to start spring recess early and sent the students home, but the court ruled that they could stay on campus. The students still have not received all the answers they wanted, and it is unclear if they have made peace with management.    Sabie/Graskop residents tired of Thaba Chweu Local Municipality (TCLM)
The residents of Sabie/Graskop closed the roads this July, saying they are fed up with the corruption at TCLM. They closed the T-junction in Sabie on the Hazyview side and on the Lydenburg Road. Their intention was allegedly to make it impossible for anyone to go in and out of Sabie. The protests happened several times and the residents are still unhappy about several things including water supply, electricity and allocation of the so-called Chinese houses.  ALSO READ:All Sabie roads re-opened after protest Service delivery protest lead to closure KNP gates  Paul Kruger, Phabeni and Numbi gates were inaccessible due to service delivery protests that took place on the R536 and R538 in March. The strikes caused havoc among tour operators, who had to explain to excited international tourists that these roads were closed because of the adjacent community having blockaded it with burning tyres and rubble.
Sabie, Graskop, Bushbuckridge and the routes to all the southern gates of the Kruger National Park, including the N4, were affected. Guests and tour operators alike were advised to use alternative routes such as the Malelane or Orpen gates, which for some caused a massive loss in business. The police arrested 23 protesters for public violence. The fresh produce market subcontractors and construction workers
In May, distraught subcontractors and construction workers had to resort to blocking the Lydenburg Road (R37), demanding their salaries at Mpumalanga International Fresh Produce outside Mbombela. In the past months there have been numerous setbacks, with subcontractors protesting due to delays in their payment. At one point the subcontractors held a site manager, Yeashiel Mabudeo, against his will. Traffic came to a standstill on several occasions and they would sometimes block both lanes with trucks. Payment was not the only issue that was raised about the market, as some community members were not happy about the processes followed to employ the people working there. At some point the workers were forced to stop working and were threatened by men carrying weapons.
Despite all these protests, the Mpumalanga Economic Growth Agency (MEGA) said everything was still on schedule. Road closed The R36 between Machadodorp and Carolina was closed due to a protest which started when a local shop was looted and set alight. This came after a man was assaulted by two others, who were allegedly members of the local community policing forum (CPF). However, MEC for community safety, security and liaison, Pat Ngomane said they did not belong to any CPF structure or a security company. According to bystanders, the incident was racially motivated.    Violent protest in Waterval Boven
In October violent protests started after a community member was allegedly killed by a councillor. They closed the tunnel on the N4 and motorists were advised to make use of alternative routes. Community member, Joe Mlangeni, was leading work-related protests when he reportedly got into a fight with the councillor. He was allegedly hit with pangas and axes on his head and hands when he was trying to stop the attack.