 BUSHBUCKRIDGE – Offenders from Barberton Department of Correctional Services (DCS) formed part of the official launch of 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children. The event was organised by the national Department of Arts and Culture to create awareness of the abuse of women and children. According to Mesia Hlungwani, DCS spokesman, offenders invited were victims and those convicted of offenses related to women and children abuse. In her welcoming remarks, Busiswe Shiba, MEC for the Department of Social Development, said offenders were invited to share with community members their stories of life behind bars and the consequences of abusing women and children. “We invited offenders to share with you the consequences of abusing women and children, so that when you do such things you know exactly the consequences of your actions.” she said. Read More: Fruits of smuggling into prison curbed One of the offenders, Elizabeth Sithole, convicted for murder, told women in attendance to stay away from abusive relationships. “I was a victim of domestic violence and the mistake I made was to take the law into my own hands. As a result, life was lost and I ended up in prison.” she said. “If your spouse is abusing you in any manner, leave that relationship before it takes you to prison or the graveyard.” Joseph Ntuli, who is serving a life sentence at Barberton Maximum Correctional Centre, told the attendees that abuse towards women does not just affect them. It gives birth to angry families which in the long run produces angry communities. “When you get arrested for female abuse, you leave your family indeterminate, because they were expecting you to protect them,” Ntuli said. Both offenders told the attendees that life behind bars was not as easy as they think. “Life behind bars is not nice at all. I would not wish even my enemy to be where I am,” said Sithole. Offenders also signed a pledge to commit themselves to, upon release, protect women and children against domestic violence. Hlungwani said the DCS promotes the participation of offenders in social events, as this prepares them for reintegration. “Most of them spent more than 10 years without being in contact with community members, so events of this nature provide a platform for offenders to engage with community members.
This also helps offenders to admit their offenses and to actively participate in rehabilitation processes,” added Hlungwani.