 MBOMBELA – Fireworks that light up the Lowveld sky have become a traditional part of welcoming the New Year. This year will be no exception, although there are strict by-laws in place for when, where and how these pyrotechnics can be used. According to City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) by-laws, persons or bodies who wish to discharge fireworks for religious, festive or public displays or celebration purposes, should acquire prior permission from the chief fire officer. ALSO READ: Mbombela releases list of approved fireworks sites Fireworks may only be discharged at sports grounds within the municipality, including Mbombela Stadium, Nelsville Sports Grounds, KaMagugu Sports Grounds and KaNyamazane Stadium. It is only allowed on New Year’s Eve from 18:00 to 01:00 on New Year’s Day.  It is also permitted on Chinese New Year and Diwali. In addition, permission for firework displays has to be obtained from the fire department. No one is allowed to discharge fireworks on any public road or residences. People are also not allowed to light fireworks where animals are present. No child under 16 may use them either, unless under adult supervision.  The area where the display occurs shall be kept free of all flammable and combustible material.Ensure that you buy your fireworks from a reputable retailer that will show you an up-to-date licence. These strict laws are in place not only to protect citizens, but also to protect pets that are severely affected during displays. Nelspruit SPCA chairman, Lize Pienaar, urged animal owners to take care of their pets during that time. ALSO READ: Police vow to show zero tolerance to fireworks offender “Please do not leave your animal home alone during the New Year’s fireworks. Make sure that they are safe and secure inside your home and obtain tranquillisers or calming tablets from the vet to make it easier for them,” Pienaar said.  According to her, pets escape out of fear. Along with volunteers they will patrol the area from 23:00 on New Year’s Eve to look for animals that have escaped. They will patrol again on New Year’s Day to see if there are any animals left on the streets. Anyone who wants to volunteer can send an email to Pienaar at chair@spcanelspruit.co.za or to vice chairman Ludi Botha at vicechair@spcanelspruit.co.za. 