 This what we did on December 1. The Nelspruit Partners for Possibility (PfP) circle was, with the support of the Best of Mbombela winner Produkta Nissan, treated to a ride and drive event which took participants on a round trip to White River, Hazyview and back to Sabie via the famous 22. Here we enjoyed a brief refreshment stop and then proceeded back to Mbombela. PfP is an award-winning non-profit organisation offering a home-grown solution for the many challenges facing rural and primary schools in SA.  It partners business leaders with school principals from rural schools. The intention being that these partnerships find solutions for the many challenges which these principals face everyday. ALSO READ: Bobber Black the bike with the delightful growl You will find more info on www.pfp4SA.org Produkta provided a good spread of different vehicles and the route, chosen by yours truly, was just perfect as it offered town driving, open road, sweeps and tight corners.  This exposed the group, which included school principals, local business leaders and a Swiss exchange student, to an array of different back-to-back driving experiences. As to the group’s reaction – well, they had a blast! We started the trip with a quick coffee, a muffin and a drivers’ briefing at the dealership, during which dealer principal Gerrie Cronje gave the group a short rundown of the dealership, its philosophy and the Nissan brand.  The convoy left the dealership at just the other side of 09:00. Regular driver and car changes followed so as to allow everyone an opportunity to experience all the vehicles. ALSO READ: Ready to ride? Join the Cycle Tribe relaunch The X-Trail was a crowd favorite. The performance of the smaller-engined vehicles, like the Micra, caught everyone by surprise.  The Juke provided a different driving experience altogether and I would not be at all surprised if love reared its head with some of the participants. What I enjoyed most though was the big smiles at every driver change – they just said it all!”I felt honored to be part of this exciting event and appreciated the opportunity to drive the Nissans.  It was an adventurous and stimulating experience,” said Elsi, principal of Mthayiza Primary. The day was completed with a delightful buffet lunch at Tsogo Sun. And if I may add, the group sincerely enjoyed the Xmas decorated tables and friendly reception at the hotel. Big shout out to general manager Michelle Higgo and her staff. Thank you to Cindy, Gerrie, Moeder and all others at Produkta Nissan who contributed to making this such a success. Methinks, we must do this again – soon!