 MBOMBELA – The widower of Johanica Orton (34) expressed his hope that the man accused of killing her, would meet her in heaven. Phillip Watkins (50) died on Sunday. He was due back in court on March 5. He had been charged with culpable homicide and leaving the scene of an accident following a hit-and-run accident in which Johanica was killed on October 28, 2017. ALSO READ: Tears of forgiveness flow in police holding cells Her widower, André Orton, expressed his hope yesterday that Watkins had found Jesus Christ before he died. “I just want to emphasise that I express my sincerest condolences to his friends and family. I really pray they all experience the tangible reality of God’s comfort in this difficult time of grieving. My desire and prayers were always that Phillip received Christ and he experienced the grace of God. The Bible says whoever calls on the Lord will be saved. God is faithful and if we confess our sins to Him, He will cleanse us of all unrighteousness.” “We prayed a lot for Phillip. I believe he has already met Johanica in heaven. They could be talking about that day of the incident and the day in jail when her sister visited him. Would that not be amazing?” he added. Phillip Watkins. The incident occurred at The Rest near Bateleur Estate at around 08:30. A bystander saw Johanica jogging earlier. When she looked again she saw the woman lying next to the road. This is when Bossies Community Justice (BCJ) was called to the scene. A white vehicle alleged to have been in the possession of Watkins was linked to the incident. He was arrested later that day. ALSO READ:Forgiveness touches hearts On November 3, Johanica’s sister, Carina Janse van Rensburg gave an incredible testimony during the memorial service at Church Unlimited. She revealed how she had visited Watkins in the police holding cells and how she had forgiven him. Johanica Orton. BCJ’s Albert Gryvenstein confirmed that the cause of Watkins’ death was not yet known. “He was ill and had diabetes, but we are awaiting confirmation on what the cause was.” Watkins’ sister, Ingrid Longden-Thurgood said it came as tragic shock to the whole family. “His heart was broken from last year’s tragic demise of Johanica. He never really came to terms with what had happened and his health deteriorated. Anyway, we are glad in a way that his suffering on Earth has ceased and his soul is now being cared for by God.” She said his family were gathering in Johannesburg. “I arrived with my husband this morning. We are all praying that God’s comfort will befall both families and that both Johanica, and now this gentle giant, can forever rest in peace,” she said.