 MBOMBELA – “Who doesn’t love a fairy tale?” These were the words of Trish Breytenbach who assisted a young couple who had been struggling for two and a half years to get married. Trish, with Bernadette Willson, heard about the young couple’s plight from Jennifer Swanepoel, the groom-to-be’s mother. Trish, Bernadette and Jennifer work together at Aramex Courier Services.
“Jennifer is a single mom who raised her children with no backup. I saw how she felt and she is not the type to ask for help from anyone, so Bernadette and I decided to help them.” ALSO READ: Death trap’ on R40 to be investigated The young couple, Ansche Cockrell and Collin Pohl, had met through Ansche’s sister and had fallen madly in love. The couple said they had no idea about the two fairy godmothers who were planning their wedding.  They had already given up on having a traditional one. “My mom told us that none of her sons should ever get married in court, but we were thinking that might be the only option left for us.”
Trish and Bernadette set to work on planning the big day. “Bernadette has her own business, Vanilla Dreams Cakery, so she will supply the cake. So we had that covered.” Trish then posted a short story about the couple on Facebook and how they needed help with the wedding. “Within two days we got a venue sponsored, and a dress and the photographer.” The wedding is now set for April 7 at Klipspringer Lodge. “They sponsored the venue and a room where the bride can get ready. We looking at about 50 guests attending.” The bride also got someone to do her make-up and hair and nails. “They asked to stay anonymous,” said Trish. ALSO READ: VIDEO: 3 male Lions go for 1 Lioness Silver Diamond Boutique sponsored the dress for Ansche and the dry-cleaning for before and after the event. Joleen Abdo Photography will take the couple’s wedding photos free of charge. “I will also take pictures when they have their first baby,” said Joleen. “So far we are set, we just need a caterer, flowers and the groom needs a suit, but we are almost ready,” concluded Trish.