 KAAPMUIDEN – The couple, members of one of the oldest families in the Onderberg, were again held prisoner in their home on Saturday, barely four weeks after they were tied up and robbed the first time. “We’re increasing our security and if they come again, we want them caught,” Colleen told Lowvelder firmly yesterday morning. The couple were watching rugby in the lounge around 20:45 on Saturday when they became aware of three men standing behind them. One was holding a firearm and the other a cane slasher. Although all the doors were locked, they cut open mosquito netting on one of the doors and managed to unlock it. ALSO READ: “We didn’t hear them because of the rugby. Everything happened so fast, it’s a bit hazy,” Colleen said. She was told to keep calm and lie down on the carpet, but she sat on the settee next to it instead. The suspect then shot and killed their dog, which was lying behind the couple’s chairs. “I don’t think it was going for them, it was a mild-tempered dog. But it was in their way,” Colleen explained. One of the suspects lunged at Dave with a knife and stabbed him on the upper left arm, just below his shoulder. The wound wasn’t severe, but it bled profusely. “Both of us were pressing our panic buttons and one asked what we were doing. Dave told him and the alarm went off. Then they ran,” Colleen said. The robbers stole Colleen’s cellphone. The gardener’s overalls were also found missing. A cane slasher they took was left behind. Colleen said it took the security company, police and ambulance a while to get to them, as their nearest road was blocked by booms. According to Sgt Pretty Khoza of Kaapmuiden SAPS, a case of house robbery and attempted murder was opened. ALSO READ: Colleen stated that police managed to get fingerprints and suspect the gun used by the robbers was one of Dave’s stolen during the previous attack. Dave’s stab wound was treated at Mediclinic Nelspruit on Sunday and he was given a tetanus shot. Colleen said they are not sure what the robbers were after, as their most valuable possessions were stolen last time and only a cellphone was taken this time. A month ago, the Elphicks were ambushed at their gate by three men around 11:00. Sgt Gerald Sedibe of Mpumalanga SAPS reported that Dave climbed out of the vehicle to check why the security gate was not opening and was attacked by three men wearing balaclavas. Colleen was also forced out of the vehicle and ordered to walk home. The couple had to point out their safe and valuables at gunpoint before being tied up. The robbers fled with cellphones, three firearms, cash and jewellery. Sedibe said Colleen had been hit in the face and Dave assaulted with the flat side of a panga. They were also bruised from being tied tightly with cable ties and shoelaces. He stated that the couple had to struggle for hours to free themselves. No arrests have been made in either incidents. Khoza urged anyone with information on the first case to contact
WO Lucky Shabangu on 082-448-1688 and for the second incident, Sgt Sifiso Hlatswayo on 082-448-9253.