 South Africa joined the rest of the world in celebrating World Wetlands Day last month. The 2018 theme is, “Wetlands for a Sustainable Urban Future”. This highlights the important role of urban wetlands, of which Mbombela has no shortage, in making cities liveable. They reduce flooding, replenish drinking water, filter waste, provide urban green spaces, and are a source of livelihoods. Urban wetlands should be integrated into a city’s sustainable future planning and development. Yet, freshwater ecosystems worldwide have suffered the highest level of loss in recent decades. According to the 2016 WWF report titled, Water: Facts and Futures – Rethinking South Africa’s Water Future, the majority of South Africa’s wetland and river ecosystem types are threatened, a concerning fact given that wetlands make up only 2,4 per cent of the country’s surface area, yet play a crucial role in delivering ecosystem services such as water purification, flood regulation and drought mitigation. Less than a third of the country’s river, wetland and estuary ecosystem types can be considered moderately to well-protected. Rivers inside protected areas are in a slightly better condition compared to those outside, however, some are still degraded by human activity upstream and before entering protected areas. Dams significantly alter the ability of freshwater ecosystems to support the provision of good quality water along their full course as they disrupt the natural sequence of floods and low flows and the subsequent movement of sediment in the main course and out onto flood plains. Free-flowing rivers are rare features in the South African landscape. They are regarded as part of the natural heritage, offering social, economic and conservation value, and supporting the livelihoods of many people along the catchment, ranging from communities to farmers to industry. Most rivers are hard-working water suppliers, supporting multiple levels of use. Healthy tributaries and wetlands are key support mechanisms to maintain their sustainability by providing natural flow and sediment pulses, as well as refuge for freshwater species. Tributaries, therefore, often hold good conservation potential. Alien fish species were introduced to South African waterways for angling purposes and have proliferated. Invasive alien fish species can be a threat to freshwater fish biodiversity in terms of predation on and competition with indigenous species. Excessive water abstraction from perennial rivers also poses a threat to indigenous freshwater fish, especially during dry summers. If levels of abstraction are so high that rivers stop flowing, it can result in habitat depletion or water too warm to sustain species. Rivers in farming areas are often canalised by bulldozing to regulate water supply and stop flood damage to orchards and crops, which are frequently planted in floodplains. This can affect the structure and functioning of a river. The use of bulldozers to construct canal systems damages the river banks and beds, and compromises the vital riparian vegetation zone essential for river bank stabilisation and nutrient cycling in the river. This causes erosion and movement of sediment which fills downstream pools with sand. Freshwater ecosystems – lakes, ponds, rivers, streams, springs and wetlands – are generally the lowest points in the landscape, making them “receivers” of water runoff but also of waste, sediment and pollutants. This renders them susceptible to upstream and upland impacts. Lowvelder remembers Lily Mine tragedy The excessive use of fertilisers and harmful pesticides on crops, vineyards and orchards is a growing problem. This is exacerbated when crops and orchards are planted near or within river flood zones, because fertilisers and pesticides readily enter watercourses and rivers, with possible lethal effects on aquatic life. Buffers of vegetation surrounding freshwater ecosystems have a critical role to play in reducing the impacts of land-use practices, maintaining basic aquatic processes and preventing further degradation of water resources. Given the increasing threat of alien vegetation to our catchments, we need to increase the level of financial investment into alien clearing programmes. While government, through the Working for Water Programme, has tackled this challenge for the past 20 years and cleared 2,7 million hectares, co-financing is required from private and civil society if we are to substantially decrease the area invaded by alien plants. Freshwater Ecosystem Priority Areas have been identified across South Africa, providing strategic spatial priorities for conserving South Africa’s freshwater ecosystems and associated biodiversity. It will help to address the gaps in the protected area system for freshwater ecosystems. With careful planning, which includes managing 22 per cent of this country’s river length and 38 per cent wetland areas as priority areas and ensuring that these are minimally impacted, South Africa will be able to more effectively conserve its diverse freshwater ecosystems and contribute to sustainable development of water resources in the country. WoF commemorates wetlands day 