“The most important career message to all South African learners is to continue investing in themselves, their skills and their careers,” says Kerry Damons of Boston City Campus & Business College. Why, however, should you choose Boston? What are the benefits of tertiary education with this award-winning private higher education institution? Firstly, getting better work opportunities and having more to offer when new opportunities arise.  The immediate benefits are just as important as they result in success in your studies. “Boston has 46 campuses nationally,” says Damons. “This means you can attend a campus close to home. It means less costs in terms of having to find alternative residence, less travel, not having to source separate food as you are still staying at home, and still being able to contribute at home”.  Damons goes on to list other benefits of studying at Boston: Damons says that the technology based mixed mode education at Boston has resulted in outstanding results, year after year. This proven methodology addresses imbalances in previous education, allowing faster learners to go quickly through the content, and allowing learners who require revision to move at their own pace, without disrupting others.  In addition, Boston has since establishment placed an emphasis on career counselling, helping learners to investigate career options as well. “We have seen through our many years of experience that if a learner studies something that they love, and that they have an interest in, they are way more likely to succeed and to complete their course. We are looking for learners who will commit to finishing their qualifications and the way to ensure this is by helping them find something they want to do for many years!” says Damons. Added to this, is the value of the Boston qualifications through external accreditation by regulating bodies and Higher Education councils. “It is essential that when you qualify you have industry recognition and academic recognition – this increases your value in the employment market and gives both you and your future employers’ confidence in what you have studied. We believe at Boston that this must be on your campus checklist wherever you go – make sure that you are getting an accredited and recognised qualification before you commit to your studies,” says Damons.  Damons goes on to discuss the sensitive issue of fees. “We realise that accessibility to education needed to be increased,” she says. “So we have made various plans to make Boston as accessible as possible. All textbooks are included in the fees – this means that it can save you up to R7500 each year. We have also put financial payment plans in place to allow learners to pay for their studies over a specified amount of time, so you do not have to pay all your fees upfront.” Also, “Boston qualifications make you work ready”, says Damons. This means that your chances of employment increase dramatically and that you require hardly any training when newly employed at a company. When you complete a bookkeeping course, you hit the ground running in the work place, because you have the actual skills required to do the job succesfully.  “All in all, we believe that you need to look at the student with a broad perspective, take all environmental and personal factors into account, career choice and industry preference,” says Damons. This allows the student to make the best possible selection of the best-suited qualification at the best campus. Call Boston on 013 752 4560 or email info@boston.co.za