 MBOMBELA – The team of dedicated educators at Kabouterland Pre-Primary Creche & Nursery School were honoured with a visit from provincial Department of Social Development on Wednesday. Representatives of the department, Matsuepo Dube, Lerato Kgoathe and Vishal Haripersad, were joined by a number of education specialists. The latter are all delegates from the State of Maryland in the USA who are currently on a tour to local schools facilitated by the provincial department. Also read: High quality care for your children Matsuepo Dube, Lerato Kgoathe and Vishal Haripersad. Their visit was to showcase Kabouterland to the international guests as the benchmark for all early childhood development centres in Mpumalanga. Sunita de Beer, owner of Kabouterland, led the delegates on a detailed tour of the premises, taking time to explain how she and her staff manage the daily operations of the school, crèche and nursery. One of the teachers, Jennifer Grobler, discussed how the curricula are implemented for the various age groups. Cezanne Laufs explained how Kabouterland seeks to function as part of a larger community support network for parents. Also read: Créche receives first of five new classrooms Prof Jean Baiey, Sunita de Beer and Tara Hammons. “We have been singled out for the quality of the work we do here at Kabouterland and that’s a great honour,” said De Beer, who since opening Kabouterland in 1995, has managed to grow the enterprise to accommodate 250 children from infants to three years of age. She said without her team she would not have been able to keep up the work. “My staff and I work together closely, and in my experience the foundation of any good business is the staff, because if they are happy and feel supported the children in our care will be happy and so too their parents,” she said. Also read: Woodhouse Care Base Christmas party sponsored by locals “We at Kabouterland feel very privileged to be able to share our knowledge and understanding with our neighbours. We were also approached to allow educators from other schools to shadow and learn from us,” said De Beer.