 MBOMBELA – Four-year-old Lutricia Nkentjane’s kidnappers and murderers were found guilty on all counts in the city’s Circuit High Court on Wednesday. Lutricia’s uncle, Louis Sithole, and Sfiso Mhloli Mazibe, Themba Myambo, Jabulani Ndlovu, Thembinkosi Maziya and Michael Mandla Mokoena were found guilty. Also: Horrific revelations in muti murder trial Judge GM Makhanya delivered his verdict in a six-hour judgement. He explained why he concluded that the six had conspired to kill Lutricia in a ruthless way. He said they had acted in concert from the inception of their plot to its execution, which covered a time span of eight months. Some of the would-be conspirators met in February 2015 at a traditional school where they were to be taught how to become nyangas (traditional healers). Also read: Uncle of murdered child testifies to ‘losing’ girl At the school’s graduation ceremony, Ndlovu, also nicknamed uJericho, offered Mazibe R15 000 for a girl. The judge found they colluded with Myambo, Maziya, Mokoena and Sithole to kidnap and kill the latter’s niece. On the day of her disappearance, five of the six travelled together to where Sithole was waiting, with Lucretia, in the bush near Mgobodzi in the Tonga area. She was murdered there, either by all six or in the presence of them all.  She was strangled and her throat was slit. Her body was then placed in a black bag and taken to a nearby rondavel. There, her body was mutilated further.
Although it was previously testified that the body was used for muti, this was not expounded on by Makhanya in his judgement. Also read: Alleged child killers’ bail denied in “Tonga case” Focusing on the acts of conspiracy to murder and kidnapping, he stated, “The court… finds no evidence to suggest that any of the accused disassociated themselves from the murder.” Makhanya said the court found beyond a reasonable doubt that all of the accused aligned themselves to a common purpose to kill the child. He described the convicted criminals as a “gang”. This gang, according to Makhanya, had more than enough time to converse and plan the method of killing their vulnerable victim who was unlikely to put up a fight, “and kill her they did,” he said. The courtroom was filled to capacity by Lutricia’s family members and friends of the family. They erupted in joyous song and celebration following the judgement. One of the family members said they as a community feel that justice was served. Makhanya ordered that the six remain in custody. They will be sentenced today.