 MBOMBELA – A criminal case has been opened at Ngodwana SAPS against the farming enterprise Joubert & Sons.
The enterprise is one of the largest in the Lowveld, known for its popular farm stall on the R539 Schoemanskloof Road, and its citrus and macadamia exports to the East. According to a police officer, case 20/02/2018 was reported by environmental management inspector or Green Scorpion, Maanda Alidzulwi on Friday February 16. This followed an investigation on December 8 into alleged transgressions of the National Environmental Management Act (107 of 1998), known as Nema.
The enforcement unit of the Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS), or Blue Scorpions, were also part of the investigating team.
Both DWS and the Department of Agriculture, Rural Development, Land and Environmental Affairs were earlier alerted by the Schoemanskloof Farmers Association (SFA) about alleged non-compliance issues and practices by Joubert & Sons and others, including the drenching of wetlands and development of orchards in riparian areas of rivers and streams.
The investigators were assisted by the scientific services department for aquatic ecosystems and herpetofauna of the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency. An official of the Department of Water Affairs and Forestry this week confirmed that the investigations may be extended to include the removal of certain species of trees proclaimed by the National Forestry Act as endangered. During a follow-up meeting with the SFA it was conveyed that the case is being handled as urgent by the relevant authorities and that Joubert & Sons is not supposed to continue with further activities of the sort without authority.
International environmental auditor, Felicity Henman-Weir, who also assisted in the investigation, said when riparian or wetland buffer zones and critical groundwater recharge areas are not handled in compliance with Nema, the National Water Act and the Conservation of Agricultural Resources Act, corrective action needs to be taken. Further investigations will determine whether the case will be handed over to the NPA for prosecution. Other possibilities are admission of guilt fines or plea bargains.
In the case of a successful conviction an order to rehabilitate an area to the satisfaction of all role players can be issued.
Eskom’s rights and access to infrastructure by means of way leaves also came under scrutiny, since several power lines are not reachable any more due to the erection of shade netting directly underneath them.
Eric Khoza, spokesman for Eskom, confirmed that its customer service policy requires a service agreement from a customer requesting electricity supply connections. The traversing of power lines across properties is mutually agreed upon and these are erected upon a restricted area referred to as either a line servitude or way leave.
The agreement stipulates that the customer shall ensure that no trees, bush, or any material or structures which might cause damage to any Eskom structure or power line, encroach within a specified distance (as per voltage size of the power line), without prior permission of Eskom. Joubert & Sons did not seek the power utility’s permission to erect shade netting. An example of shade nets under power lines that can cause several hazardous situations. Eskom said the shade nets limit access to the power lines and do not allow employees from identifying and reaching parts of the power line where faults may occur.
The nets are further suspended by tension wires, which pose a risk should the power line touch these wires, resulting in possible electrocution of animals, loss of human life and damage to Eskom’s infrastructure.
Khoza said that the clearing of land where power lines are on a property poses a further risk as the poles and stay wires are placed on the restricted areas to support a power line. Any activity under the power lines disrupts the soil and also affects the purpose of the support structures. After serving a notice of contravention in August 2017, Eskom requested a meeting with the Jouberts. This meeting was followed up to discuss the implementation of the proposals on a monthly basis, since the contravention requires steps to be taken within a certain time frame to ensure no unnecessary risks exist. According to Khoza, the response from the customer was positive and discussions conducted as a matter of urgency.
In the areas where shade nets are erected under the power lines, it has been agreed that the shade nets would be removed to clear the restricted areas. This will be done by the customer under Eskom’s supervision to ensure all safety issues are being
adhered to.
The power utility will reroute lines to an area on the property that will allow safe access and operation as and when required. This completion of a new section of lines and removal of nets is planned before the coming winter season.
According to Eskom’s conditions of supply expenses incurred with such alteration to overhead lines shall be born and paid in advance by the customer.
Joubert & Sons was contacted telephonically and via WhatsApp for comment. At the time of going to press it had not replied. Also read: WEATHER WARNING: Floods possible in Lowveld Dash cam legalities: what you need to know 