 “It’s one of the cleanest and cheapest sports out there, and it caters to almost anyone,” says Ken Grossmith, a freshwater sailing enthusiast and one of the longest- standing members of the Forest Sailing Club, based at Da Gama Dam. “My whole family was rooted in sailing, along with my father and two brothers. I spent many weekends getting to know the various crafts and tricks of the trade,” said Grossmith, fondly remembering how he along with his family would spend long days on the Pembie Dam close to Umvukwes – a small town in the then Rhodesia. Also read: The real secrets to living your life with passion Ken Grossmith. “Sailing is a sport for the entire family, and that’s where my love began and what I still try to pass down to the members of the club and to anyone who is interested in the sport,” he says, adding that growing up one of his fondest memories is of spending time next to the water with friends and family. Firmly rooted in the traditions and craft of using only the wind to navigate, Grossmith who has been sailing since the age of seven says to him sailing isn’t only about the time spent in the boat. “It’s not only about being in the craft, it’s about the outing; being in nature and spending time with family and like-minded people.” “To me it’s always been a community of people that respect nature and maintain an atmosphere in which being helpful, considerate and focused on the task at hand makes for a safe and fun day no matter what,” he says of the main reason he continues to go back to the dam. Also read: Public urged to use water wisely as Mpumalanga dam levels continue to decline Although he was forced to take a 15-year hiatus from the sport due to health complications, Grossmith on his arrival in the Lowveld in 1995 was fortunate enough to live on the banks of the Da Gama Dam one of the most well-known sailing retreats in the region. A true believer in the value of spending time outdoors while being challenged by the elements Grossmith says some of his most exhilarating moments in life have been at the helm of a sailing craft. “When the wind whips up and the water becomes angry, that’s when my smile grows. It’s the best part of it, flying before the wind at high speed testing you mettle against that of the weather,” he says grinning. Although his many hobbies and professional life don’t allow him to be on the water every week, Grossmith regards himself a sailor at heart, and his passion for the sport is evident in his deep knowledge of the history and development thereof in southern Africa. Also read: Residents flush raw sewage into dam “At the end of the day, I was taught how to sail by my father, family members and close friends and that’s what I’ve taken with me all my life. I have tried to do the same by passing on my skills to the next generation in the hope that they will continue to find pleasure in harnessing nature for some good clean fun,” he said of his wish for freshwater sailing in the Lowveld.