  Hacking has never been easier, nor has booking yourself a year behind bars. In terms of the Electronic Communications and Transactions Act (ECTA), anyone who intercepts another’s data without permission commits a crime. The act also stipulates that such interceptors will incur jail time as punishment. Lowvelder recently reported on how prevalent Whatsapp hacking has become. Not only can a child do it – our children actually do it every day. READ: LOCAL TEENS CREATE AND DISTRIBUTE CHILD PORNOGRAPHY Hacking software aimed at accessing Facebook, Facebook Messenger, Snapchat, Instagram and other social media accounts have recently been used by an increasing amount of spouses and persons in relationships. “It’s the only way to ensure that my fiancé keeps no secrets from me,” one woman rationalised her behaviour. The truth is this: you cannot rationalise away the fact that your behaviour is illegal. In terms of the Electronic Communications and Transactions Act (ECTA), it is a crime to access or intercept someone else’s data without permission to do so. Section 86 also states that the modification or destroying of another’s data is a criminal offence. Subsections 3 and 4 further criminalise the following: “(3) A person who unlawfully produces, sells, offers to sell, procures for use, designs, adapts for use,
distributes or possesses any device, including a computer program or a component, which is designed
primarily to overcome security measures for the protection of data, or performs any of those acts with
regard to a password, access code or any other similar kind of data with the intent to unlawfully utilise
such item to contravene this section, is guilty of an offence. (4) A person who utilises any device or computer program mentioned in subsection (3) in order to
unlawfully overcome security measures designed to protect such data or access thereto, is guilty of an
offence,” According to Bossie’s Community Justice’s Albert Gryvenstein, crime fighters have vowed to implement the law. “We’ve received confirmation that interfering with another’s data is a crime. Accordingly, people who do so will now be arrested and held accountable in court,” he said. According to Gryvenstein, it doesn’t matter whether the guilty party is a minor who believes he is playing an innocent joke on a friend. “It does not matter whether you are a jealous spouse who seeks to spy on your wife,” he added and promised: “your reasons for behaving illegally do not rid you of criminal liability. If you are caught, you will be arrested,” he said. (Bossies Community Justice (BCJ) is a non-profit organisation dedicated to fighting crime in the Lowveld. Its officials may arrest criminals. BCJ works closely with the police and assist the latter to get – and keep – criminals behind bars.) READ: WILL YOUR CHILD TEXT HIMSELF INTO JAIL? Apart from catching hackers red handed or reacting to reports from sources, the police and crime fighters are looking into another way of catching hackers. The plan is to get this done with an application that will be available to regular citizens as well as crime fighters. Such an application does not yet exist, but Gryvenstein anticipates that it will soon become available.