 MBOMBELA – “It starts with the relationship between humans and animals, and from there I try to find ways of telling a story which shows compassion and understanding between horse and rider within the complex historical context in which each story unfolds,” says Juliette Whelpton of her series of books, Heroes with Hooves, which she will be presenting at this month’s Pen in my Hand. Also read: Pen in my Hand: Bornman shares Lowveld’s history The stories, which detail the lives of both horse and rider, are told from the perspective of the various equestrian heroes which played an integral role on the lives of famous Boer generals. “I tried to tell the tales, ‘from the horse’s mouth’,” she said of her unique style and presentation of the stories she so lovingly researched. Whelpton owns and runs the Healing Hooves centre in Pretoria, which offers a horse-oriented counselling service, and believes that with the correct amount of care and guidance, horses can teach us as humans much about ourselves and our behaviour. “At the end of the day, the goal I had in mind when embarking on this writing journey was retell stories that form part of our diverse South African history by using horses instead of people to carry the narrative,” said Whelpton of her three self-published novels. Also read: Pen in my Hand: Dr Jack as honoured guest The stories detail the remarkable events of times gone by and offer readers glimpses into the history and adventures of Boer generals, Christiaan de Wet, Koos de la Rey and Louis Botha as they made their way through the then untamed South African bush and veld. “In the books readers will meet a range of fearless men, observant scouts and most importantly, four-hooved heroes,” said Whelpton. Also read: Pen in my Hand: Beleef ‘n boeiende aand met skrywer en verteller Come hear her share stories and snippets from her books at the monthly Pen in my Hand event, which will be hosted at A Bica Coffee Shop on February 22 at 18:00. Entry fee is R50 and includes a scrumptious meal provided by A Bica. Pre-bookings are essential and can be made by calling the coffee shop directly on 073-329-9238.