 MBOMBELA – The man accused of murdering Liesl Nel (41) on Friday is expected to appear in court today. According to Nico Grobler, Hi-Tech Security Nelspruit operations manager, they received a call from the owner who could not reach her on the phone on Saturday morning. “We went through with the victim’s brother and we searched the house and could not find her. We found her outside in a ditch,” he said. Albert Gryvenstein of Bossies Community Justice who was also on the scene, said it was not a farm attack, although the incident occurred on a smallholding outside the city. Also read: UPDATE: Suspect in Liesl Nel murder due in court on Tuesday  On Saturday afternoon a 36-year-old man was arrested by Lt Col Erhard Stroh of the SAPS. According to Capt Dawie Pretorius, SAPS spokesman, the suspect worked as a gardener on the property at which Nel was staying and had been positively linked to the crime. “The suspect was arrested in Pienaar Trust. He had the deceased’s laptop and cellphone in his possession,” he said. Pretorius lauded the hard work of Stroh and his team from the Serious and Violent Crimes Unit, who collaborated with the crime intelligence officers to arrest the suspect on Saturday. A post-mortem was conducted on Monday in an attempt to determine the cause of Nel’s death. Since news of the incident became public, friends and people who knew Nel, a long-time resident, have been pouring out messages of support and condolences to her family. “We met while working together and became close friends over the last couple of years.
“As a Nelspruit local, who had lived here all her life, she had deep roots in the community,” said close family friend, Carmen Botes. Also read: Forwarding a voice note could get you in trouble Ron Olivier, Marian Cottle, Liesl Nel and Dylan Jenkins. “She was basically like family to me and my parents,” she said, fondly remembering the wonderful times they had spent together. She said Nel was a truly trustworthy, honest, reliable and decent person. “She was in every sense of the word, simply a good person.” According to Botes, Nel had an absolute passion for people and animals and her kindness to all livings things was evident in her consideration for others in everything she did. “She was indiscriminately kind and loving.” Botes said she will always treasure memories of the two of them; outdoors on a walk or adventure, because wherever there was a natural pool, waterfall or river, Nel would not let an opportunity to spend time in nature pass her by. “She was happiest out in the sunshine among trees and the people she loved,” said Botes. Tributes in memory of Nel’s legacy have been flooding the Vegan Explorer Lowveld Facebook group, of which she was an administrator. Close friend, Jodi Wainstein said on the group, “Thank you to Liesl for inspiring us. Your memory will live on always and we will spread the word.” Botes, who shared Nel’s passion for veganism, said she plans to use the Vegan Explorer Lowveld Facebook group as a way of paying tribute to Nel. “Liesl lived her life by vegan values, she could not hurt a soul. She always made time; inspiring, educating and encouraging anyone and everyone who showed vegan interest. In her memory, I don’t want this page to end now that she is gone. Also read: Alleged copper-cable thieves finally arrested Liesl Nel. “Please help me honour the person she was and her intentions with the page by finding every single vegan and vegan friend in the Lowveld and inviting them to join the group, so that we can continue journeying towards compassionate eating, even in the smallest of steps,” she posted on the group. “Liesl, we will love you always. Thank you for leaving this legacy – it is up to all of us in this group to bring justice to your name and values,” said Ron Olivier Nel’s friends also took it upon themselves to pay tribute to her legacy by posting messages of kindness and condolences on Facebook. A former colleague, Suzette Grobler said on Facebook, “Liesl I am so sorry my friend that your life was ended in such a brutal way. You will be remembered as a kindhearted soul by us that worked with you at Kiaat Hospital. Rest in peace.” “Your beautiful eyes, now forever closed. Liesl Nel 1977-2018,” said Leon Botha. Edna Freemantle said, “So very sad. She had such a sparkling personality.” Rozanne van Zyl said of the incident: “Wow, it is so sad every time I saw her in stores she was always smiling and made people smile. RIP. We are going to miss you.” According to Botes, a memorial service in honour of Nel’s legacy will be held at the Lowveld National Botanical Garden at 10:00 on Saturday. Guests are requested not to wear black, but rather to dress in Nel’s favourite colours; turquoise, blue, red, pink or green. “Bring a handwritten devotion to Liesl to pin up, and a picnic blanket and basket,” Botes said.