 MBOMBELA – The police, in collaboration with Eskom, Telkom and the Post Office, succeeded in arresting suspected copper-cable thieves on Tuesday. This following continued investigation into operations of a copper-cable syndicate in the city, according to Capt Dawie Pretorius SAPS spokesman. “On Tuesday arrests were made following an investigation which led to suspects being tracked down on their way to Mbombela from Barberton. The vehicle they were travelling in was stopped, searched and copper cables were found,” he said, adding that the investigation is ongoing. Business owners and residents of Karino have been plagued by continued theft of Telkom copper cables. Also read: Theft of rails and sleepers results in serious danger  According to a prominent businessman in the area, who requested to remain anonymous for professional reasons, the issue has been going on for over eight months. “In November we had a whole month of no service. The issue was so bad that I had a positive credit balance on my Telkom account due to non-use,” said the source, who added that following a month of outages, he was forced to change service providers. “The impact on our business is far-reaching and I was forced to change to a Voice over IP system to ensure that I can do business 24 hours a day, without having to worry that the line might be interrupted unexpectedly,” he said. According to Telkom spokesman and senior specialist, Pynee Chetty, the service provider acknowledges the direct impact that cable theft has on the daily operations of businesses. “Telkom has observed a trend in the deliberate and determined cycle of theft. This is damaging businesses, depriving our customers of a basic service and, in some cases, adversely affecting their security. Of course this is affecting our capacity to deliver services within acceptable time intervals,” he said. Also read: Cable Croc to keep thieves at bay  The challenge of repairing or replacing Telkom cables, which span the Karino Bridge that links the KaMagugu Road (D2296) with the N4, has led to business owners, including Murray Johnstone of the Karino Viva filling station, to opt for more reliable, more costly telecommunications options. “We don’t rely on Telkom because, no matter how fast they replace the cables, it is guaranteed that it will be stolen again. So there’s no chance that I will risk my business by having a Telkom line,” said Johnstone, who relies on the use of cellphones and a mobile Internet connection to conduct his daily business. Ismail Valey, a shop assistant at the Karino Hardware store, said they routinely suffer at the hands of cable thieves. “We cannot go without a landline. We really depend on it to do business, mainly because it’s much cheaper, but when the lines are off we are forced to use cellphones which increases the running costs of the business,” he said. “Cases are routinely opened with SAPS, but most of the time the suspects who are arrested are the runners who do the physical work of cutting and stealing the cables. The criminals we really need to identify and track down are the ones who buy the stolen cables and create and maintain a market for these stolen goods,” said Pretorius, adding that these criminals operate as a syndicate of buyers and sellers. Also read: Door-to-door education on electricity theft  According the Chetty, Telkom endeavours to restore interrupted services as quickly as possible, but that due to the nature of each incident and the high incidence of theft in the area, there is no single solution to the problem. “Some cases allow for the replacement of the stolen copper cable, while others need alternative access technology. Importantly, both cases entail a process of assessment, funding, planning and deployment. Some delays can also be attributed to the recurrence of theft and procedural time lapses associated with the process for acquiring way leaves from the relevant metropolitan and town councils, as well as Environmental Impact Assessment studies that are essential, especially in the advent of converting to a wireless intervention,” he said. “We are aware of Telkom’s attempts to switch to alternative technologies to curb the cases of theft,” said Pretorius. He added that the police launch routine visits to suspected dealers of stolen goods in an attempt to reduce the demand for these goods. “It is an ongoing and persistent issue in the city and surrounding rural areas and SAPS will continue to work hard at finding and prosecuting these criminals,” Pretorius concluded.