 MBOMBELA – In 18 months there will once again be a day hospital in the Lowveld. The site was handed over on Monday. Hospital manager, Carmen Savva said construction is expected to be complete in 18 months. The day clinic will feature two levels of parking space, the clinic, doctors’ rooms and a new helipad on the roof. This is good news for patients, as medical-aid schemes recommend that many small procedures be done in day hospitals because they don’t require an overnight stay or the infrastructure of a tertiary hospital. They can thus be done at a lower cost. ALSO SEE: Mediclinic Nelspruit Interhoër 2018 According to Savva, the international standard is that about 70 per cent of small procedures are done in day facilities. The average for South Africa, however, is around 30 per cent. Where there is no day facility, as is the case in the Lowveld at the moment, patients place pressure on the area’s hospitals’ existing beds and cause delays in admittance, she explained. This also results in patients often having to make large co-payments for procedures, explained Robyn Baard, manager of patient experience at Mediclinic Nelspruit. “It will relieve the pressure inpatients are placing on beds in the area and alleviate the wait patients now face for beds,” she said. The clinic will have 19 beds. These are called “pods”, and are arranged in a new design, a first for a Mediclinic Day Clinic, where each bed is directly linked to the operating theatre. Savva added that only booked procedures are handled in a day clinic. “There are no disruptions like those which occur in larger hospitals due to unforeseen emergencies that can arise.” ALSO SEE: Mediclinic to withdraw its presence from Barberton More good news is that at the completion of the construction, a total of 180 additional parking spaces will be added on the site. A bridge will link the two facilities. What’s more, they will share some facilities – such as the laundry. While construction is ongoing, admittance will still be done at the front of the hospital. The public and visitors will use the back entrance and parking in Banket Street to access the hospital as of March 1. “It is added value that would go some way to making the system more sustainable,” Baard added. ALSO SEE: Robs and Mediclinic welcome seven babies on New Year