 MONTROSE – Charges of culpable homicide may await a police officer who has been hospitalised following an accident in which Vincent Ngomane, a decorated traffic officer, was killed on Friday afternoon. Ngomane, described as one of the best in his field, died while on duty on Friday. He was struck by a vehicle reportedly travelling at a high speed near the Montrose intersection of the N4 and the Schoemanskloof Road at around 07:30. He succumbed to his injuries later that day. The Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison (DCSSL) confirmed that Ngomane was stopping a red Audi sedan when the driver of a Chevrolet Aveo sideswiped the Audi and overturned, hitting the officer. He sustained several internal injuries and was rushed to Nelspruit Mediclinic by an ER24 ambulance. The driver of the Chevrolet sustained minor injuries and was admitted to Mediclinic where he is recovering. A spokesman for the department, Moeti Mmusi, said it was an unmarked police vehicle driven by a police officer. “He is facing charges of culpable homicide, but due to his hospitalisation, is yet to appear in court.” MEC for the DCSSL, Pat Ngomane, described Vincent Ngomane as a strong man who was brave at work. “He was a hard worker and contributed to the fight against road crashes on our roads,” he said. He expressed his condolences to the family, but reiterated that the driver should be punished for his actions. Vincent Ngomane was one of four Ehlanzeni traffic officers recently honoured by the MEC for their outstanding work during the festive season. “For the province, we felt that it would be a huge mistake to begin the year without appreciating the hard work and effort shown by the traffic officers during the festive season.” At the awards ceremony, the MEC expressed his concern over the increase in the number of pedestrians dying on the roads. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, after which he will be laid to rest on Saturday. Neither of the venues have been confirmed yet. Also read: Decorated traffic officer dies Mabuza’s house guards help foil latest CIT heist Video: Eyewitness reports on horrific N4 crash