 PIENAAR – Speaker for the City of Mbombela Local Municipality, Mandla Msibi has accused the SAPS for damaging his property while arresting him for the same crime on Monday. “I woke up from people hammering on my bedroom window, when I got up and opened the door I was greeted by five police officers carrying rifles,” he said, adding that his wife and young child were traumatised by the ordeal when they were awakened at 00:35. “At first the police said I was under arrest for house robbery. I asked to see the docket and was surprised to see that there was no name on it. Also read: City’s financial woes under scrutiny “When I asked the police to state their business, they quickly changed their story saying I was no longer under arrest,” he said. Msibi, however, insisted that he be taken to Pienaar Police Station to be formally charged. “We arrived at the station and there they said the charge against me is malicious damage to property. “They kept me for about 10 minutes at the charge office and then I was released at around 01:30 on Monday.” He, however, maintained he had not been present at the business meeting at the time of the incident and he believed the allegations against him are politically motivated. Also read: New city a first of its kind “I was ill with flu at the time and was at home with my wife and child, sleeping,” he said. “At around 20:35 on Sunday I was called by a warrent officer from Pienaar Police Station who said he had received information that I had been present when Cllr Bulunga was allegedly attacked and his car damaged.” According to Msibi, two police officers came to see him on Sunday evening at approximately 20:45. “I met with them and showed them my car parked in the garage and explained that I had not been present at the time they said the incident happened as I was sick and resting.” He said following the visit, he took two tablets and went back to bed as he was under the impression that the matter had been cleared up, only to be awakened by SAPS in the early hours of Monday. Sgt Gerald Sedibe, SAPS spokesman, confirmed that Msibi was apprehended on a charge of malicious damage to property. Also read: Public violence case postponed “The case was opened by a councillor who provided us with information which led to the arrest,” he said. Sedibe was, however, unable to confirm the allegations made by Msibi that members of SAPS had damaged a door and two windows of his home when they came to arrest him. “Msibi reported to the KaNyamazane Magistrate’s Court on Monday, but the docket was not placed on the court roll as there was not sufficient information to proceed with prosecution. The matter is currently under investigation,” said Sedibe. Msibi, who maintains that the allegations which led to his arrest are politically motivated, said he plans to sue the SAPS and state for R10 million.