 MBOMBELA – After the tremendous success of the first Mpumalanga Show in 2017, the dates for this year’s event have been confirmed for August 30 to September 1 at Mbombela Stadium.The varied entertainment line-up is set to amaze and dazzle spectators with a wide selection of stage performers and carnival acts throughout the three days.
“The two tiers of the show, namely family entertainment and the trade platform, were a great success last year and we will build on this offering going forward,” said Lindi Botha, marketing manager for the show.
The first Mpumalanga Show contributed millions of rand to the local economy last year. It attracted around 20 000 visitors and over 300 exhibitors. Mpumalanga Show, everything for everyone
“We are thrilled to have made such a huge impact in our first year. The positive response from the local community has been overwhelming. We would like to thank everyone for supporting the event. Our exhibitors reported good sales, many have received an increase in business after the event due to the exposure they received,” said Botha.
The aim of the Mpumalanga Show is to uplift the province, create more opportunities for economic growth, and learning.
This year there will be workshops and conferences for entrepreneurs and those with interests in tourism, agriculture, mining and wildlife industries.
The show will again offer a schools programme featuring informative talks and a carnival parade using recycled art.
“We are making a few adjust-ments to our programme and layout to bring activities closer together to ensure that no one misses out on any of the events and exhibits within the showgrounds,” explained Botha.
The Mpumalanga Show art competition of 2017 provided much exposure to upcoming artists.
“We were so humbled by the reactions of the winners of our art competitions. We will continue to support the arts to create further opportunities for artists to make a living from their craft,” said Botha.
As part of its growth strategy, the show has ploughed back over R500 000 into charities and upliftment projects.
“A significant portion of our budget was spent on providing assistance to people from Mataffin to exhibit and trade at the Mpumalanga Show. This gave small, upcoming businesses an opportunity to tap into a bigger market.
“We also provided employment to over 120 people from the community and 100 students from the University of Mpumalanga. Food and cash donations were given to needy communities around the Lowveld.”
Enquiries: mpumalangashow@gmail.com. Also read: Mpumalanga Show knocks first show out of the park