 MBOMBELA – “Keep calm and carry on,” is the suggestion offered to South Africans by political analyst Justice Malala. He was the guest speaker at an informative scenario-planning session hosted by PSG Wealth at Umbali Events Venue last Wednesday, two days before Cyril Ramaphosa was elected president of South Africa. “Despite facing 18 months of substantive uncertainty, I think it’s time that we as South Africans adopt the mantra of ‘keep calm and carry on’,” he said. Also read: Joubert & Sons could face criminal charges  “My view is that the rand will perform strongly as things start to change for the better,” said Malala about the leadership change. Highlighting the intricacies of the workings of the country’s politics as guided by the sinister hands of politicians and their shady business partners, he said South Africans should allow themselves to be cautiously optimistic. His presentation was riddled with humorous quips. Guided by his quick wit Malala laid bare the roots and effects of the current instability the country faces both politically and economically. Also read: Daar’s nog hoop vir Mienke According to Malala, the positive change expected with the election of Ramaphosa as president relies on his ability to work with the rest of the top five in changing the way in which the ruling party conducts the business of running the country. Malala said Ramaphosa will have to face a number of burning issues that include the expropriation of land without compensation, the use of racist rhetoric to divide the country, enduring corruption and tertiary-education funding. “As investors it is important, despite these pressing matters, not to respond to extremes,” he said. According to Malala, when viewed in comparison to his predecessor, Ramaphosa represents sound principles. Also read: Man ashamed after stroke of misfortune “He has proved throughout this political and business career that he is a man of his word and that he can do the work. Don’t get me wrong, I’m not saying he is without fault, but I am cautiously confident that he is working to effect change,” he said. He added that if the national development plan (NDP) was to be implemented in a clear and focused way, it would provide a path toward growth which might benefit both investors and the country as a whole. Also read: “The NDP is a fantastic document and it promises a way forward which might allow the country to move out of the current slump,” he said. “We are going to have to make it through a couple more bumps along the way, but we as a country have taken a turn for the better,” Malala concluded.