 MSHOLOZI – People close to Mama Esther Nkosi took to threatening a journalist last Tuesday. Thobile Mlangeni, a reporter for Lowvelder’s sister publication Mpumalanga News, obtained an interim protection order against Nkosi on Friday. Mlangeni said she visited the area, where she also lives, last week to ask the community how they felt about the court ordering the Department of Social Development (DSD) to shut Mama Esther’s Safe Haven down. DSD explained that Nkosi had taken it to court for allegedly illegally removing children from her care. The court instead ruled that the place must be shut down and that the department had to be provided with the details of the kids in her care, that they may be placed elsewhere. Mlangeni recorded her conversation with Mama Esther and members of the MCN board. In it, a woman can be heard saying she must stop “fabricating” things, because “people will kill you”. Nobody is heard contradicting her. LISTEN:  ALSO HEAR:  Nkosi and the board claim that the media’s reports on the centre, including those of Lowvelder, have been false. These reports pertain to an incident of rape on the premises last year as confirmed by Mpumalanga police, and the order given by the court. ALSO SEE: 65-year-old man appears in court for rape at Mama Esther They invited the newspaper to meet with the board to talk about the issues. Lowvelder declined. In terms of the protection order, Nkosi is not allowed to contact Mlangeni in any way except through legal processes. Mlangeni said she was afraid that something bad would happen to her. Prior to the meeting, people verbally intimidated her and deleted all the recordings off her phone. The board in turn claims that the department has done nothing to help the centre become compliant, while Nkosi just helps people, and the children are suffering as a result. READ MORE: Safe haven is in urgent need A board member denied to Lowvelder that Mlangeni has anything to fear, but failed to properly explain what “People will kill you” means. She said, “She doesn’t have to fear. Nothing like that was intended to her. People are angry in Msholozi. Esther helps so many people. We have been fighting for the centre tooth and nail.” DSD spokesman, Petunia Lessing said the department is facing resistance from Nkosi in trying to execute the court order. “The centre partially complied to the court order. The department was given a list of 14 children on February 5. “In terms of the court order, we were supposed to get the list on February 2. I also need to mention that we were informed that there are about 80 children at the centre, but we were only given information about 14. When we enquired further we were told that the rest went back home as they have families. “Several attempts were made to work with Nkosi and the different board members in the past. However, there has not been any positive outcome to the matter.” MCN intends to appeal the court ruling. Adv Jonothan Jacobs, the centre’s lawyer, did not respond to the newspaper’s request for comment. ALSO SEE: The controversial Mama Esther’s Safe Haven must close