 It has become more common to see dogs shifting roles from “watch guard” to “part of the family”, meaning that holidays are now, more than ever, being planned with pets in mind. Great news for dogs around the country, but this does mean that a little more planning and preparation is needed, to ensure your hounds are ready to hit the road. “Generally speaking, dogs enjoy a road trip as much as we do, especially if they’ve been part of the travel fun from a young age,” says Dominique Kuhlmann, General Manager of the Pet Food Industry Association of Southern Africa (PFI). “And for those that are new to the travel game, there are thankfully various ideas that owners can make use of to make their pets more comfortable on the road.” Also read: Tips to keep your pets safe and happy this festive season Image: sourced Dogs thrive on routine, and while your trip will disrupt this, travelling with all the “comforts of home” will assist in adjusting to the new situation. Be sure to pack his favourite blanket, toys and his own feeding dishes. It is important to maintain your dog’s regular feeding habits to avoid any possible digestive disturbances that switching may cause. Seeing the vet before a long journey with your dog/s is never a bad idea. Certain vaccinations may be required for the destination and the vet should give your dogs the “all clear” for travel. Also read: Fireworks a danger to pets and wildlife Image: sourced It’s also a good opportunity to discuss sedative options for nervous and restless travelers or car sickness remedies. Travel with your pets’ veterinary certificates and be well-prepared with additional equipment to make the journey and holiday a safe, relaxed and comfortable one, such as: While planning you’ll want to ensure that your destination is pet-friendly.  Once there your dog should wear a sturdy collar with an information disc containing your contact details (especially your cellphone number). Microchips are becoming the most popular method of identification, but a tag offers an immediate solution, and owners can often be located before needing to take the pet to the vet to read the microchip. It’s also a good idea to travel with a photo of your pet in case he gets lost. Also read: Holiday care for your pets On the day of travel it is recommended to get a walk in before you depart. Only feed a small meal a few hours before you leave to limit the effect of car sickness. Be prepared to stop often, to allow your dog to toilet and stretch his legs but secure your pet on a leash before opening any doors. Offer him small amounts of water at regular intervals to prevent dehydration. Finally, be aware of the temperature in the car. Blankets may be needed in cold temperatures and open windows or air conditioners (with vents in reach of your dog) are needed when travelling in very hot weather. Never leave your pet in the car as the car’s internal temperature could rise to fatal levels very quickly. *Information provided by Pet Food Industry Association of Southern Africa (PFI)