 MBOMBELA – Lutricia Nkentjane’s killers were sentenced in court this morning. The three-year-old was on October 30, 2015.
Lutricia’s uncle, Louis Sithole, alongside Sfiso Mhloli Mazibe, Themba Myambo, Jabulani Ndlovu, Thembinkosi Maziya and Michael Mandla Mokoena were found guilty on all counts of kidnapping and murder on January 31 in the Circuit High Court.  Judge GM Makhanya said, “All the accused showed no remorse for their deeds before court even with the overwhelming evidence . Due to this, it seems to me they entered into an unholy pact which was tight.” ALSO READ: UPDATE: Accused in Liesl Nel’s murder makes first court appearance He sentenced Sithole to 19 years imprisonment for murder and five years for kidnapping. “ He was a close relation and was present when she was murdered. He played a role as held her hand while they strangled her. Sithole was 19 years-old when the incident happened, so technically a teenager and they are easily influenced by peers and adults.” Mazibe was sentenced to 17 years for murder as he was 17 years-old when the incident happened. He also got five years for kidnapping which would run concurrently. Crowd gathers outside the court Myambo, Ndlovu, Maziya and Mokoena were all sentenced to life for murder and five years for kidnapping which would run concurrently. The crowd erupted in joyous song and dance following the judges sentencing. All the men had acted in concert from the inception of their plot to its execution, which covered a time span of eight months. ALSO READ: Suspect in murder case burned alive Some of the would-be conspirators met in February 2015 at a traditional school, where they were to be taught how to become nyangas (traditional healers). At the school’s graduation ceremony, Ndlovu offered Mazibe R15 000 for a girl. They colluded with Myambo, Maziya, Mokoena and Sithole to kidnap and kill the latter’s niece. On the day of her disappearance, the conspirators met Sithole, who was waiting with Lutricia, in a bush near Mgobodzi in the Tonga area. She was murdered there, strangled and her throat slit. Her body was taken to a nearby rondavel, where it was mutilated further. 