 MBOMBELA – A local firefighter, Cedric Seokoma (36) who sacrificed his life for the safety of his crew during a raging fire in Franschhoek on Monday, remained a true hero until his last moments. He led a crew of 25 which provided fire-suppression support in the Simonsberg Mountains. The blaze was contained on Sunday evening, but flared up on Monday morning.
The Working on Fire (WoF) Strand team, comprising 20 firefighters including Cedric who was the assistant project manager, was called out again. He brought his team to safety before he was engulfed by the flames. A Huey helicopter and spotter plane were dispatched to evacuate the remaining firefighters from the Simonsberg Mountains. Shortly before the incident, he was in contact with his wife Eunice and sent his love. Then, her worst fears realised.
“My worst nightmare has always been an official with his cap on his chest, just like in a movie that we used to love watching together, showing up at my door delivering terrible news,” said Eunice during an interview on Wednesday.
This exact scenario played out at at their home in Hillsview at about 15:00 on Monday.
To temporarily try and conceal the news and deliver it in the best way possible, WoF approached her employer, a local gynaecologist, for who she is practice manager. He phoned me, but he was breathing heavily and I immediately felt something was wrong, but I wasn’t sure exactly what,” she said.
He told her that her daughter had flu, and that she urgently needed to follow him home. But with Martin Bolton, WoF’s general manager and crew leader Bongani Nhlabathi tailing him, her suspicion grew. When they arrived at her home, she saw the bereaved WoF team with bowed heads. This confirmed that, the day Eunice has been dreading since she and Cedric met in 2012, had arrived. “Martin, please don’t tell it’s what I think it is?” upon which he confirmed her fear.
“Please tell me that it’s not true Bongani,” she pleaded with Nhlabathi, but nothing he could say, could soothe the pain. Then, came the difficult task of breaking the news to their five-year-old daughter, Mikayla, who is yet to come to terms with the loss of her of “Didda”, as she used to call him.
“She keeps on asking me why I’m crying, and that I should stop because I’m a big girl and Didda isn’t crying.”
Eunice, however, finds comfort in the fact that he will always be there to protect them. “We know that he’s not here in flesh anymore, but in spirit he will always be there for us. He was the most selfless, wonderful man that I’ve ever met. He always put others before himself. He was a true hero.”
Nhlabathi, who normally fills the room with his presence, with a spark in his eyes and a vibrant smile, described notifying the family as the worst thing he has ever had to do.
He met Cedric in 2004 during a training camp in Sabie, and they become staunch friends.
André Scheepers, manager of Lowveld and Escarpment Fire Protection Association (Lefpa), met Cedric in 2005. “I was the general manager for WoF for Mpumalanga and Limpopo. Based at Sekororo in Limpopo as a type 1 crew leader, he looked well after his crew of 25, and always strived to do better, move forward and was always up for a challenge,” said Scheepers. The story that Scheepers and Cedric’s colleagues all recall, is one that hails him as a hero.
His bravery started to show in 2007, when he saved the life of a fellow firefighter, who is now a basic life-support medic at ER24, Oupa Chilenje.
He was the driver of a Samil vehicle, under way to collect rations for the Sekororo team on project. Upon their return, they had a terrible accident just past Bambi Motel on the Lydenburg Road.
The Samil swerved off the road and went down a steep embankment. Scheepers said both were injured, but Chilenje worse than Cedric. With all his injuries, he managed to crawl to the road and call Scheepers for help. Upon arrival, Cedric went down the mountain again, and carried Chilenje up. “I could not leave my friend there on his own,” he told Scheepers. According to WoF managing director, Trevor Abrahams, he will always be remembered by his fellow team members and the fraternity for his good sense of humour and dedication to his work.
“This came as a huge shock to the WoF family. I worked closely with Cedric and I always found him to be a very bubbly person. Whenever we met up with people, he was liked by everyone.
“We also went to Indonesia together during a huge firefighting operation. I got to know him as a fast learner, someone who was passionate about his job and who cared about people. He will be greatly missed by everyone who worked with him.””On behalf of the Department of Environmental Affairs, the WoF management and staff, we wish to express our heartfelt condolences to the Seokoma family for the loss of their loved one. We also wish to express our gratitude to our WoF firefighters who have exhibited dedication, selfless service and hard work during these fires,” said the minister of environmental affairs, Dr Edna Molewa.
Cedric will be laid to rest in Limpopo, where he grew up, on Saturday. The identification of the N4 victims in progress Police officer may be charged for traffic officer’s death 