 MBOMBELA – This was the undertaking by education spokesman, Jasper Zwane, on Thursday morning. An admission meeting between the department and principals was scheduled for yesterday afternoon to finalise the issue of placement of pupils in public schools. “The principals have been so good and cooperating. We are making serious inroads,” he said. According to Zwane, by Thursday morning fewer than 10 children in Mbombela had not been placed. “We are watching them,” said provincial EFF leader, Collen Sedibe. “If (the MEC for education, Reginah Mhaule) does not walk the talk, we’ll point all our guns on to her.” Sedibe embarked on a protest campaign at local primary schools this week. READ MORE: Laerskool Nelspruit closed as EFF protest fails to materialise  He indicated that they would do the same at Nelspruit Primary on Wednesday and Laerskool Bergland on Thursday, but did not. These schools remained open, but security companies stood guard to keep an eye on things. Zwane said they would have preferred it if the party had engaged the department directly. “The disruption of classes is not something we can condone. We are inviting them to engage us. Our door is open.” A taxi full of pupils had to be turned away at the gate of Laerskool Nelspruit on Tuesday. He added that once all the numbers were finalised, the department would supply all additional support each school needed to accommodate the additional learners – mobile classrooms, teachers for these, and learner- and teacher- support materials. These classrooms were promised two weeks ago, but Zwane said they could not be delivered until the schools’ final numbers had been finalised. “We will provide support in abundance.” He thanked everyone for their cooperation. “We are grateful that we are managing this together.” He requested any parent with a child without a place in a public school on Monday, should contact the department. “We are in the business of admitting learners,” he concluded. READ MORE: Crisis over too few places for Lowveld grade ones