 MBOMBELA – The garden was especially close to Nel’s heart, and her friends, family and well-wishers were particularly asked to wear colour to the memorial.  She was found murdered last Saturday where she was house-sitting on the Uitkyk Road.  Nel loved colours, so the traditional mourning black was put on the shelf for the day and the common thread was soft, flowing clothes made up of a kaleidoscope of beautiful turquoise, green, blue and yellow.  Friends and family members spoke affectionately about her warmth and friendship, as well as her zest for life and her love of animals. Nel was a committed vegan, and this message was greatly important to her, a testament to her love of and respect for all living things and a message she strived to bring across in everything she did.  A loving, carefree soul who lived each moment to the full, she is deeply mourned by her family and friends, whose lives she so keenly touched in so many ways.  Long-time family friend Carmen Botes remembers Nel as being very clear on the subject of dying, she never feared it at all. She did, however, fear that people would despair for her, morbidly sorrowful that the emptiness her loss would leave in the lives of those left behind after she was gone.  For this reason the service was a celebration of life, specifically Nel’s life, a vibrant, joyous life lived deeply and to the full, hopefully bringing a little closure to those who loved and cared for her.  An unselfish, lovely and giving young woman, with a deep and abiding passion for all that touched her beautiful spirit and gentle, warm heart, Nel’s philosophy was to be kind, no matter what.  While there may be a gaping hole in the world she has left behind, her presence will never be completely gone. Her legacy remains and her bright, beautiful light will never dim in the hearts of those touched by her brave spirit and cherished soul.  • Nicholas Magagula (35) who was arrested in connection with the murder last Saturday, appeared in court last week and is due back on March 6.