 MBOMBELA – Lowveld SAPS once again shone at the National Excellence Awards. The fifth edition of the annual awards ceremony was recently held at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre in Durban. These awards recognise and reward outstanding performance, exceptional devotion to community relations and extraordinary courage within the service. Mpumalanga police officers again scooped a number of accolades in various categories. The White River K9 Unit was named first runner-up in the Visible Policing Team of the Year. “The members of the team worked tirelessly, often not taking rest days and without claiming overtime,” Mpumalanga SAPS said in a statement. In the 2016/17 financial year, the team made 59 arrests, recovered 20 vehicles, recovered drugs valued at R1,2 million as well as stolen property worth more than R850 000 and 11 firearms. READ MORE: Police honour province’s best Lt Col MA Manzini’s team from the Acornhoek Cluster Office was named second runners-up in the Detective Team of the Year category. The team is attached to the Hazyview Detective Branch. SAPS noted that tourists and businesses in and around Hazyview were being targeted, and the detective team identified a group of suspects. “The team worked during the night and over weekends. Sometimes the team worked more than eight hours overtime in one shift without claiming overtime remuneration,” the statement read. The operation led to a number of arrests and, due to the team’s efforts, the Hazyview detectives moved up from a two-star to a four-star performance rating in the 2016/17 year. It is also a rating they are maintaining, after its previous poor performance had placed it on the list of priority stations. Mpumalanga police commissioner, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma applauded the team for the great results and encouraged every man and woman in blue to be disciplined, dedicated and determined in executing their duties in order to surpass what has been achieved by these members. ALSO SEE: Elderly couple fall victim to second farm attack in less than a month 