 Online trade via the Internet is common place these days with anything from clothes to antiques being bought and sold. According to the SPCA, the Internet is, however, not the place you should go to buy a new pet. The National Council of SPCA’s stated on their website that the general modus operandi of such scammers follow the story below: “A woman from South Africa has moved to the Cameroon to do work on an AIDS project. She has taken her monkey/parrot/dog/cat/tiger cub/lion cub with her and is now looking for a good home for her pet back in South Africa since she does not have time to provide proper care. “The animal is offered ‘free to a good home’. After the unsuspecting ‘victim’ has been reeled in, fake travel confirmation from an airline is forwarded with a request for money to pay a refundable deposit to hire a ventilated electronic crate, as requested by the airline. “The con-artist states that she has spent all her money on the flight charges and is unable to pay anything further. She appeals to the good Samaritan to please help. Needless to say, once the money has been received, the woman disappears and the awaited animal (who did not exist) never arrives.” Also read: Nelspruit SPCA in dire need of financial help In the event that you fall prey to such a scam, report the matter to the SAPS immediately and open a case of extortion. Although the Internet has become an avenue for people to advertise “free to good home” pets when they move to a smaller property or emigrate this does not always mean the best for the animal involved. “We caution that not everyone has your animal’s best interest at heart. Your good intentions may not hold positive results for your family pet.” Also read: EFF plans to disrupt traffic during Sopa 2018 in Mbombela According to the National Council of SPCAs breeders and security companies have not been slow to recognise these openings and are quick to acquire “suitable” animals for their trade in this manner. The best way to protect yourself and slow down the growth of the puppy/kitten mill trade is to source only from SPCAs and other welfare organisations. Individuals adopting from an SPCA will typically receive accurate information and they will be questioned about their ability to care for the pet they wish to offer a home to. Pre and post home checks take place and a legally binding agreement is signed by both parties. Also read: Dash cam legalities: what you need to know The officially adopted Statement of Policy of the SPCA movement is to “discourage the keeping of domestic animals by those who do not have the facilities, time, financial means or level of interest necessary to ensure a satisfactory standard of care and husbandry for their pets” – domestic animals deserve to be loved, cared for, taken to the vet when necessary, played with, taken for walks and so on. SPCAs are careful to ensure that these qualities are available in all prospective homes. Alternately buy your pets from bona fide breeders registered with the relevant organisations if a specific breed is required.