 MBOMBELA – When Richard Bhakero warned that he would kill himself on Sunday night, hotel staff urged him not to. “We’ve called the police, they will be here soon,” one said. The distance between the Promenade Hotel and the police station is 450 metres, yet the police never came. “They explained that they did not have a vehicle to travel in,” said hotel representative, Tim Stapleton. The Promenade Hotel. A single gunshot echoed through the night. Bhakero was done waiting to be saved. He had spent the last 25 minutes of his life alone and terrified, hiding from a group of people who sought to harm him. On his side of a locked door were only his thoughts, emotions and a loaded gun. On the other side were about 15 assailants. The series of events that led to Bhakero’s suicide started in the vicinity of Coyote’s Pub (Shisa Nyama Nelspruit), located 600 metres from the hotel. Eyewitnesses said he fired a gunshot in the air outside the establishment, reportedly to diffuse an altercation. Suddenly a group of men turned on Bhakhero and he made a run for it – all the way to the hotel.  According to Stapleton, this happened at about 22:15. He said that Bhakero was frantic and explained that he was running for his life. “On his heels were about 15 people,” Stapleton said. Bhakero dashed into the hotel bar and hid in the duty manager’s office. The latter locked the door to keep Bhakero safe. Hotel security managed to stall the group, but were eventually overpowered. “He was locked in the office for about 25 minutes until the gunshot sounded. In reaction thereto, the assailants left the scene,” Stapleton stated. “Once we reported that a shot had been fired, it took the police minutes to arrive,” he added. Bhakero was declared dead on the scene. READ MORE ON BHAKERO’S DEATH HERE The identities of the assailants remain a mystery. According to police spokesman, Capt Dawie Pretorius, no person has come forward with information pertaining to Bhakero’s death. He urged eyewitnesses to approach the police with their versions of what happened. According to Pretorius, no complaint was lodged about the SAPS’s alleged initial lack of service on either the 10111 line or the police’s telephone line. He advised that such a complaint should have been submitted in writing to the police station. Pretorius denied that the local station has a motor vehicle shortage. Stapleton confirmed that no hotel guests were involved or hurt during the incident. “Hotel Promenade have consoled the guests who stayed at the hotel, and we ensure that we have taken precautions to ensure the safety of all our guests at all times,” he said.
To that effect, Divergent Ops has been approached by the hotel to assist in optimising security strategies. “Counselling was also offered to guests and staff,” he said. Bhakero was a celebrated local DJ and chef.  His death left family, friends and colleagues bereaved. “I shall always love you, Papa,” promised his daughter, Beverly, on Facebook. Richard Bhakero and his daughter, Beverly. His fellow DJ, Just Joe, called Bhakero “one of the most humble DJs (he) came across in this journey of music”. Celebrity chef, Citrum Khumalo’s heartfelt message was posted to Bhakero’s Facebook wall. “We are really sorry about the loss… We will dearly miss him.” He added a verse from James 4:14. “We are just a vapour that appears for a little while and then vanishes away.”