The first leg of Mopani MTB Race kicked off on a exciting route at Kavinga Guest House last Saturday.
This formed part of a five-leg race, all at new venues offering a variety of new challenges and elements that promise to push the riders to the limit. The venues include Kavinga, Casterbridge Hollow and Likweti Bushveld Farm Estate, which above all, offer breathtaking views of the picturesque Lowveld.
Franco Pelser, who has just come off a win at the first leg of the Mpumalanga Provincial Cross-Country series at Mankele, took the spoils in the 48-kilometre race.
He led the pack from the word go, and reigned supreme despite constant pressure from Emile Fourie. Franco, who is over the moon with his time, said the recently incorporated elements undoubtedly added excitement to the race.
“New components like water, rocks and grueling uphills, especially the unusual uphill finish, made the race all the more challenging,” he said, but added that it was everything but a doddle. Yet he finished in a time of just over one hour and
38 minutes.
He overcame the opposition by more than two minutes, ahead of Fourie who finished in a time of 01:41:31, closely followed by Christo Carelsen in 01:42:52.
“I’m excited to push myself even further with the second leg of the Cross-Country Series at Uplands this weekend,” he said.
The 16-year-old Arno Matthee won the 25-kilometre race in a time of 58:50, very closely followed by Richardo van der Merwe, with just 17 seconds separating them. Nico Potgieter secured third with a respectable time of 01:03:01.
In the slightly shorter 15-kilometre race, Petros Mathebula took the spoils in 37:48, followed by a cyclist who did their surname proud, Franco’s brother Lohan, in 38:18.
The next race will be held at Casterbridge Hollow, on March 3. Riders will earn points from a maximum of three out of the five races at events.
Riders must be present at the final prize giving on 27 October to accept their prize, or must should lodge a request and a valid reason with organisers. Also read: Beers and Botha join NAD Pro’s cycling force Laeveld se atlete stap met meeste trofeë weg