 The Mpumalanga Fencing Club was recently honoured by a visit from a television crew that will produce a feature on the development of the sport in the province. “It was fantastic to be offered the opportunity to be filmed for TV. It not only showcased our club, but the sport of fencing too,” said Greta Ingram, the club’s chairman and coach. Also read: Fierce fencer set to excel  “Sello told me of the great work Greta and her young fencers are up to here in Mpumalanga after I filmed him in Mamelodi, his hometown. So I simply couldn’t resist coming here to make a piece for CGTN,” he said. “I was so grateful that Sello suggested my club. I think we have the same vision: to see this sport promoted and introduced to kids from all walks of life,” said Ingram. She added that to her, one of the most important aspects of developing the sport is to cater to children who are not interested in traditional sports. “It’s not that they are lazy, it’s just not for them,” she said. “I have been in contact with a school in Mataffin to reach out to kids who have probably never even heard of the sport. These kids might be the minority, but they also need to be given the opportunity to try something different,” she said of developmental aim of the club. Also read: Passionate about sharing his decades-old dedication  Currently preparing for their first competition of the year, which will be in Limpopo in March, Ingram said she is looking forward to seeing how the young fencers perform. “While I’m there I will begin my training for wheelchair fencing, as I have met a few parents who have kids in wheelchairs and there are no sporting activities for them. It was then that I decided I could do something. It’s my vision to begin a club for these kids and adults too,” she said. Adding that her focus this year is to see the club grow in numbers and reach, she said she is excited for what the year holds in store for fencing in the province. Also read: Mpumalanga fencers bring medals home  “I have always tried to challenge myself each year by stepping out of my comfort zone and reaching for the sky by challenging myself as a fencer and coach,” she concluded. 