 The ongoing industrial action by trade unions at various Eskom sites might lead to load-shedding, Eskom has said on Monday. Trade unions are striking over the issue of performance bonuses for the 2017/2018 financial year after the two parties did not come to an agreement at the central bargaining forum (CBF) last  Friday. “Eskom notes with concern the industrial action by trade unions and advises customers to plan on the assumption that load-shedding could take place in the week.”  Also read: Why Eskom is loadshedding Stage 1 requires 1000MW to be rotationally loadshed nation-wide Stage 2 requires 2000 MW Stage 3 requires 3000 MW Stage 4 calls for up to 4000 MW to be rotationally loadshed nationally in that given period. Loadshedding is conducted as a measure of last resort to protect the power system from a total collapse or blackout. Residents and businesses are encouraged to use electricity sparingly to ease the demand of electricity. Switch off geysers during the day especially during peak periods (05:00 to 10:00 and 17:00 to 22:00) as well as all non-essential lighting and electricity appliances to assist in reducing demand. Also read: Loadshedding is back – South Africans react Customers are advised to keep checking their load shedding schedules on the Eskom or municipal website and plan on the assumption that load shedding will take place. Matsafeni, Ilanga area, West Acres, Sonheuwel, The Rest area, Nelsriver, Riverside precinct, Drum Rock and Elawini area Rocky drift and White river area Phumlani, Msholozi and Hopeville area Delta, Steiltes, Nelsville, Kamagugu, Valencia and Orchards For Eskom customers, these schedules are available on the Eskom website (http://loadshedding.eskom.co.za). Eskom customers can also contact their customer contact centre at 0860 037 566. Eskom is urgently engaging union leaders to resolve the impasse as the current industrial action has negatively impacted plant operations and several power stations. The South African Police Services has been mobilised to maintain order and to enable safe access to power stations as these are National Key Points. Eskom has sent out a reminder to all employees that the organisation has been designated as an essential service provider, and as such employees are prohibited from participation in any form of industrial action that will further hurt the country, its people and the economy. Eskom will provide regular updates on the status of the power system through all the media platforms. 