 Lowvelder is undisputedly the best community newspaper in South Africa. This is after the newspaper was announced as the winner of the Cronwright Trophy at the 2017 FCJ Excellence Awards ceremony held on Friday. The awards are organised by The Forum of Community Journalists and is the only national competition for local and community newspapers. FCJ executive director, Marita Meyer, pointed out that it is the only competition in the country where journalists and publications can measure their work against their peers from all media outlets, big or small, corporately owned or independent. ALSO READ:Lowveld Media excels at Caxton Awards 2016 According to Fanie Groenewald, convenor of the panel of judges, there was an increase of about 20 per cent in the number of entries for this year’s awards, with 130 journalists from more than 80 local newspapers in all nine provinces entering. The prestigious awards ceremony was held at Leriba Hotel and Spa in Centurion on Friday evening, with the theme “The Oscars”. Like last year Lowvelder was named the best corporate-owned paid newspaper with a circulation of more than 10 000. Earlier this year, the newspaper was also named the best sold newspaper in the Caxton group. Lowvelder editor, De Wet Potgieter, said he was proud of the team which made it possible for the publication to be named, indisputably, the best in the country. “This was a team effort. You can only be as good as the team you have. Our young team’s pride in their work and dedication make us a winning one,” he said. Stefan de Villiers was named in the top three for the sport photography category for a photo he took for Nelspruit Post. Lowvelder’s sport editor, Carli Koch, was nominated for sport writing. The newspaper of the year, front pages and writing categories were judged at North-West University’s Potchefstroom Campus by a panel chaired by Groenewald, Joe Thloloe, Henry Jeffreys, Thalyta Swanepoel, Virginia Keppler and Cornia Pretorius. Roger Sedres, Sharief Jaffer and Leon Muller judged the photography category.