 Being culturally aware means understanding the differences between oneself and people from other countries or other backgrounds, especially differences in attitudes and values. There are several levels of cultural awareness that reflect how people grow to perceive cultural differences. Perhaps you are culturally aware and have not noticed. It is important to always learn about other cultures and become aware of difference between you and the people around you. Also read: Heritage Day: 5 interesting facts about South African genealogy and ancestry Increasing cultural awareness means to see both the positive and negative aspects of cultural differences. Cultural diversity could be a source of problems, in particular when the organization needs people to think or act in a similar way that might go against their personal beliefs. Diversity increases the level of complexity and confusion and makes agreement difficult to reach.  However, cultural diversity becomes an advantage when the organization expands its solutions and its sense of identity, and begins to take different approaches to problem solving, including all types of beliefs. Diversity in this case creates valuable new skills and behaviors. Also watch: Are these 5 controversial local ads racist? One way in which you can increase awareness is to have a better understanding of each other’s experiences. As South Africans live and work in a multicultural world that is rich in customs, culture, and diversity. Interacting with the people around you and discussing your backgrounds can form a relationship based on educating each other. Another aspect of awareness is having accurate historical context. Understanding how things came to be can be done by reading the history of other racial groups or your community. Lastly, visiting cultural institutions in your community is a great resource to have a greater awareness of the rich culture of others. Often visiting areas in your community can help you understand the people around you. Awareness matters because it opens your eyes. When we become aware of people, situations, and history, we can make more informed decisions without prejudice. We can empathize with others and hopefully begin to develop solutions on ways to build a community of inclusivity, by respecting and embracing our diversity and allowing us to work more effectively with one another. Original content: Culturosity