 WHITE RIVER – Due from August 18 to 19, the third festival will turn Casterbridge Lifestyle Centre into a reading heaven again. This is the promise of chairman Louis van der Merwe at the launch. According to him and the other organisers, the response from publishers, authors and visitors has again been overwhelmingly positive this year.
Visitors can thus look forward to a host of interesting authors, as well as a socio-political discussion, various workshops and poetry readings. The organisers’ goals include reaching out to surrounding rural schools and exposing children to the joy of stories and reading. Teenagers will be encouraged to read more, whether it be electronic or printed books, and local writers and illustrators will be supported through workshops hosted by published authors. Also read: The Lowveld book festival returns to entertain “We hope to draw visitors and well-known authors from across the country to White River and introduce them to the creative talent residing here, as well as to motivate local authors and artists by uncovering their work and exposing them to a wider world of literature,” explained Van der Merwe. A business breakfast and outreach activities will take place on Friday August 17, where Simon Dingle’s keynote presentation will debunk myths surrounding Bitcoin and blockchains and outline what the new era of money means for all. A balanced programme is promised, with a kid’s corner, storytelling, panel discussions, historical Lowveld literature, nature lovers’ presentations, interviews with authors, youth literature, a book-club segment, a cooking demonstration, two locally written and produced short films by Shihle Hlophe as well as a music show presented by the Casterbridge Music Development Academy, which will include well-known songs by local musicians. This year’s authors include two very young ones: Stacey Fru (11) and Michelle Nkamankeng (10). Event: Lowveld Book Festival 2018: Save the date! Visitors can also look forward to getting acquainted with the work of Tony Park, Dudu Busani-Dube, Mercy Dube, Tracy Going, Amy Heydenrych, Nozizwe Cynthia Jele, Mike Mills, Gus Mills, Maruping Phepheng, James Styan, Richard Steyn, Fred Khumalo, Rehana Rossouw, Steven Sidley, Kate Sidley, Ronnie Kasrils, Dr Gerrit Haarhoff, Prof Peter Delius, Peter Harris, Menzi Mkhonza, Sandy and Tony Ferrar, Sahm Venter, Vimla Naidoo, Dr Salomon Joubert, Walter Thornhill, Nechama Brodie, Niq Mhlongo, Mancoba Mabuza, Sibusiso Vilane, Adam Cruise and Archbishop Thabo Makgoba. The cooking demonstration will be given by Brett Ladds while he entertains with anecdotes from his book The Madiba Appreciation Club.
In additon to his own presentation on elephants, Adam Cruise will be one of the facilitators. Mpumi Mbethe Also hosting discussions will be Lowveld Living’s Nicky Manson, renowned local author Jayne Bauling, Bobo Lukhele, news editor at the SABC in Mpumalanga, Alison Lowry, the ex-CEO of Penguin Publishers and an independent editor, Mpumi Mbethe from Rise FM and Glenda Warburton, previously a journalist in Swaziland. South African authors will sell and autograph their latest publications. Authors will be slotted into events to ensure interesting discussions that grapple with the issues confronting SA literature and reading. More information and the complete programme are available on www.lowveldbookfestival.co.za.