 Action cricket finals were played last Tuesday at Nelspruit sports arena. There were four finals played in the summer league. Here are the results Mens B Division Gold Final Midfeeds beat Challengers, winning 82-47. The player of the match was Allen Roets from Midfeeds. The finals were played by the same teams in the previous season. That result was in favour of Challengers, who won with 77 vs 75 points. ALSO READ:Junior Action Cricket League ends on a high note The bronze final of the Mens B Division was played on Tuesday, July 3 between Gunners and Die Honde. Gunners beat Die Honde by 84 points to 10. They also achieved a bronze medal in the previous season, beating Drink Nog in the final.  Mens C1 Division Gold Final
Universal Soldiers beat Drink Nog 86-48. The player of the match was Salfaraz Kadwa from Universal Soldiers. The final in the previous season was played by Die Honde and Biami and won by Die Honde 114 to 110. Mens C1 Division Bronze Final
Die Ooms beat Fabtech 120 – 74. The player of the match was Dirk Botha from Die Ooms. Fabtech were the winners of this final in the previous season against Universal Soldiers. Unfortunately for them, this time around Die Ooms won.  Mens C2 Division Bronze Final
Enigma Warriors beat Captain Sparrows 36 vs 23. The player of the final was Carl Willemse from Captain Sparrows.
Braam Oosthuizen, the Nelspruit Arena Manager at Action Sports South Africa said that the Mens D Division Bronze Final was played by Doomsquad and Crafty Boys. ALSO READ:Junior Action Cricket League ends on a high note Doomsquad won the encounter with a score of 85 to 27. “In the same encounter the previous season, this medal was contested between Sons of Pitches and Enigma Warriors. Sons of Pitches came out tops on this occasion.”  The Mens D Division Gold Final was contested between Teazers and Sons of Pitches. “Teazers won the close encounter with 87 vs 74. They were also the winners of the same medal in the previous season, beating Benchwarmers,” said Oosthuizen.