 On July 7, I witnessed something extraordinary at Red Star Raceway. A man did four laps of the track, non-stop and that’s only the start of Jacob’s journey. From an early age, Jacob was fascinated by two things: computers and bikes. He became a computer programmer, but in November of 2005 he was involved in an accident that severed the nerve between his eyes and brain. When he left the hospital four months later, he was blind. With the support of both his immediate and motorcycle family, he managed to get back into programming. Using software and modern technology to help him along, he is now able to live a normal life on a similar level to a sighted person. One of the very first phrases he searched for on the Internet was “blind biker”. He came across the name of Billy Baxter, who in 2003 broke the world land-speed record for a blind person. Also read: An atmosphere of pride at South African Bike Festival 2018 He was also the Blind Man on Top Gear driving around the Top Gear track with Clarkson as his navigator. Baxter’s other challenge was to ride around Donnington Park on a motorcycle. Jacob had a similar plan in mind. Riding in a straight line is easy enough, but Jacob needed a challenge. After riding through some open fields with someone guiding him via a communication system, he decided he wanted to ride around a racetrack. Quite a few people helped him realise his dream. Jason Wessels from Moto Rentals, Red Star Raceway and Suzuki all came on board. Jacob has always been a Suzuki fan, so it was quite fitting that Suzuki also stepped up. They prepared an SV 650 for him, and so the journey started. Jacob is a member of the Hell Razors motorcycle club. The morning started with the club taking people with sight and hearing disabilities around the track on bikes. Later this same group of people was taken for another few laps in Suzuki cars. Also read: Small track tests enduro riders’ skills There was also some track time for kids; part of a “gees” project to get kids on bikes in a safe and controlled environment. At 14:00, Jacob set off on his quest to ride non-stop for an hour. Ian Howard followed him on a similar bike as his guide. When he crossed the finish line he went for another parade lap, this time leading his motorcycle club. He was responsible for giving instructions so that Jacob could navigate the track successfully. All proceeds went to the Guide Dog Association and other organisations assisting people with disabilities. His feat will be submitted for consideration to Guiness World Records, so let’s hope that this ride will be acknowledged for the remarkable feat that it is.