 RCL Foods’ managing director of the sugar and milling division, John du Plessis, reported that the sugar-cane harvesting season is progressing well but that producers are still recovering from the drought. At the start of June, the Komati and Malalane Mills were slightly behind the planned crush plan. The mills started up slowly at the end of March due to the challenge of getting the cane cutters’ full production up to the required levels, minor mechanical problems and rain that hampered producers’ ability to haul harvested cane out of the fields. The fact that the sugar price had to be adjusted downwards to compete with cheap imports had a devastating effect on the growers and millers. There are still high sugar stocks in the local market, but the world market is seeing lower prices. Additionally, growers had to bear the high cost of replanting fields that they had to abandon during the drought. Escalating production costs amid the lower sugar prices are also having an effect on farmers’ ability to sustain their businesses.
Because of rising costs, farmers have been forced to focus on how to use their resources such as irrigation water as effectively as possible to maximise revenue. Other measures include utilising variety selection of high-quality seed cane during replants and ensuring that cane is harvested when it has the highest possible sucrose content. Arteon- die begin van ‘n nuwe era The higher dam levels have given some farmers a bit of relief, with the Kwena Dam at 74,5 per cent and Driekoppies at 68,7. Although the former is about five per cent lower than last year, the Driekoppies Dam level has risen with about 20 per cent. “The drought had, however, forced all of us to focus on responsible and effective water usage as a scarce resource, which will have a positive effect on future irrigation and management practices,” Du Plessis remarked. The severe hailstorm that hit parts of the Lowveld at the end of May also caused some damage to a few sugar cane fields. This resulted in late hours for farmers and workers as they had to harvest as much as they could as quickly as possible. In an effort to help provide some financial relief to farmers, Du Plessis stated that they are working closely with government and have applied for an increased import tariff. They hope this will enable a sustainable local sugar industry, but say the process is a long one with no guaranteed outcome. Engines roar after a decade of silence at the Oval track “Planning for both the longer term and full recovery after the drought is affected by this uncertainty,” he concluded.