 In the Lowveld we are privileged to have countless opportunities to spend time in nature. With the Lowveld National Botanical Garden, Kruger National Park, Blyde River Canyon, Mac Mac Falls and the forests in Kaapsehoop, to name only a few, there is no shortage of wonderful places to visit. READ ALSO: Tourism South Africa briefing for Tourism Indaba 2018 Here are a few reasons for you to spend more time outside: According to Business Insider, several studies have shown that nature walks have memory-promoting effects that other walks don’t. A similar study on depressed individuals found that walks in nature boosted working memory much more than those in urban environments.  Business Insider continues to say that one study found that students sent into the forest for two nights had lower levels of cortisol – a hormone often used as a marker for stress – than those who spent that time in a city.  In the general population, studies have shown that attention is almost uniformly enhanced by exposure to natural environments. Askthescientist.com says in a study published in 2009 it found that the same holds true for children with attention deficits. Spending 20 minutes walking in a nearby park was sufficient enough to elevate attention performance in children with ADHD. This so-called “dose of nature” could prove to be a more natural solution to attention deficits in kids.  Askthescientist.com says nature offers beautiful views and fresh air, so choose an exercise regimen that will get you outside. Research at the Center for Disease Control and Prevention found that more than one third of American adults are obese. Take your exercise outside the gym and enjoy all the health benefits nature has to offer.  Huffington Post says spending more time with nature shows a shift toward more positive moods. The idea is that we like things that are inherently good for us and our survival, which is why trees and other natural elements can help lift our moods.  READ ALSO: Hope for tourism : Makhonjwa Mountains