 MBOMBELA – Mandla Zwane, director of the department’s communicable disease control programme, confirmed that at least 155 people have displayed similar symptoms at clinics in the area since last week. The symptoms were nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and fever. The number of patients peaked over the weekend. “People started going to the clinic from Friday night onwards. We had high volumes of patients over the weekend complaining of these symptoms. All of them were discharged, except for one patient who was sent to Rob Ferreira Hospital, but has since also been discharged.” Zwane said they were attempting to find a link between the patients regarding what food, drink or location they had in common. “We have taken samples and are attempting to identify the pathogens or organisms which are causing this. We have also sent water samples to our laboratory and are awaiting the results.” Zwane said health-promoting teams had also gone to the area to educate the public on how to keep hydrated and of the dangers of dehydration as it could lead to death. “We are also teaching the community how to purify their water and about basic hygiene.” Richmond Jele, spokesman for Sembcorp Silulumanzi, the water provider for the area, said they tested the reservoir and shut down the system as soon as they learned of the problem. “We also discharged the water from the reservoir, but all our tests came back negative. There was no E. coli or any problems. We even sent samples to an independent laboratory. The results were also negative.” Laboratory results of samples taken on Sunday confirmed the water was safe for human consumption. The Ehlanzeni District Health Department also visited the water treatment plant and took samples of raw water and purified water. No plant operational problems were encountered, nor any failures in the water distribution network. “If it was the water, considering how many thousands of people live in that area, the outbreak would definitely have affected more people,” Jele added. “We are of the view that the bug might be originating from other sources, as there have been reports of cases of gastrointestinal in other areas other than Tekwane South.” City of Mbombela Local Municipality spokesman, Joseph Ngala said he also had been ill with the same symptoms and he did not reside in the area. “My twins and I have been sick. I really think this is an airborne problem.” Sembcorp Silulumanzi had also taken samples at the residences of some of the people treated. “We made for immediate cleaning of the reservoir to ensure the high standard of water quality supplied to the Tekwane South community,” he added. Cleaning of the reservoir is conducted on an annual basis, though the standard is to clean reservoirs at least once in five years Zwane added that people suffering from these symptoms can make a homemade hydration remedy by adding eight teaspoons of sugar and a half a teaspoon of salt to one litre of water. “If you drink this, it will keep your body hydrated.” Ngala urged all people to remain vigilant and call Sembcorp Silulumanzi on 086-174-5858 or the municipality on 086-162-6623 to report any concerns they may have about their drinking water.