 It was a memorable moment for 45 informal business owners when they received equipment from the minister of small business development, Lindiwe Zulu, at Promenade Hotel last Tuesday. This was part of the Small Enterprise Development Agency’s (Seda) Informal and Micro Enterprise Development Programme (IMEDP). The IMEDP provides qualifying entrepreneurs with basic business management training followed by a 100 per cent grant for the acquisition of basic equipment and tools. The programme was previously implemented by the Department of Small Business Development, and is now delivered through Seda’s network of 54 branches across the nine provinces. Busisiwe Mahlalela, Maria Mnisi, Shanake Nonyane, Niniwe Mkhonto and Nomsa Cossa were the five beneficiaries called on stage. ALSO READ:Timbali paves way for franchise system Other recipients got their equipment after the event. Mnisi said she felt privileged to be one of the people who benefited from the IMEDP.
“I am so happy to receive my tools so that I can continue doing what I love. I wake up every day, set up my equipment and sell to the customers in my home,” she said.
Zulu said the number of people who is seeking assistance to start their own businesses is increasing.  “If we can start calculating the number of people who go to the offices asking for help, it is almost beyond what we can manage. We are also limited by the budget. We need a budget which is a little higher. This shows that the majority of our people have the capacity to do things for themselves,” said Zulu. Her message to the business owners was that they need to hold the government accountable for things they need. “You are the people that are harassed by the police in the streets and also disrespected by the public because of selling in the streets. You must all hold the government accountable. They must build infrastructure and shelter for your businesses,” she added. Zulu said that some of the plans they have, as the department, is to create a one-stop shop and to bring all the services to the people. “The public must be able to find everything in one place without struggling with public transport moving from one place to another,” said Zulu. During the event some beneficiaries were given the opportunity to ask the minister questions.
Nonhlanhla Mtsweni, from White Hills Trading, said things needed to be change when it comes to the plan they have after training. “We have certificates but no funds to continue with our businesses. We end up putting those certificates under our mattresses and they gather dust,” she said.