 The organisers deserve a Mexican wave for the work done in preparation for this event. And the “womza coc”, Beverley Terblanche, and the other officials dittoed this sentiment. Well done to the team! “We have much to do still,” said Anna Moolman, “but baby steps will eventually get us there, and for the interim we just want to increase membership and grow the number of competitors at each event.” Nic de Witt and Johan Fourie hammer it out on the Oval track. Also read: Classic Ford styling an upmarket upgrade Of course the other benefit of these regional events is that they expose all competitors to the challenges which stem from crowded circuits which test drivers’ skills as well as their competitive spirit. And, for some, I think this is more of a challenge than for others. This is also important for the cross-pollination of technical skills. Faizel Cassim was one of the visiting drivers who really impressed. Being an exponent of drag racing, not only was his car well prepared and truly quick, he exhibited discipline while working his way through the slower traffic. Faizel Cassim The visiting lady racers showed that they don’t budge and are not intimidated by the shorter track. I was saddened though by Bricksie, Mel Reinhardt’s absence. They are preparing a new car. I do believe, though, that she will be on track on July 7. Marius de Klerk introduced his new car at this event. “Cool”, I thought when I saw it, and although he was somewhat curtailed by the competition on the day, Marius is a tough and experienced driver. He’ll be back in full flight soon. Johan Fourie continued to display his fearless driving style. He and Nic de Witt, another stalwart presenter of exciting driving, were at each other’s throats in every heat. But he just could not outfox that other sly one on the day. Also read: A heavyweight racer with vroom in his retirement “The organisers have outdone themselves on all aspects related to this event and deserve to be supported. And of course, if you can’t tolerate sand in your eyes, stay out of the sandpit,” said Nic. I second that! Well, July 7 will once again present you with a full racing programme. Entry numbers to date promise much action and excitement. The organisers have also decided to open all local events for entries from other clubs and I most certainly support the logic behind this decision. So, be there! Also read: Fuel increase: Why Lowvelders pay more than the rest of SA 1. Johan Fourie
2. Faizel Cassim
3. Anton van Rooyen. 1. Kevin Minnie
2. Wilma Lindeque
3. Liza-Marie Theron. 1. Koos van der
Merwe
2. Jan Buys
3. Nico Venter. 1. Nic de Witt
2. Johan Fourie
3. Willie Erasmus. 1. Tiaan Buys
2. Willie Swart
3. Tiaan Theron. 1. Jen James
2. Steven Smidt
3. Angelique Baker.