 WHITE RIVER – Mabuza was arrested in June when he allegedly transacted with undercover police and received two rhino horns. He was arrested with three other people, who were charged on six counts related to rhino poaching. Nozwelo Mahumane was released on bail in June. Moshe Thobela and Romance Khoza withdrew their bail applications. Mabuza was charged with crimes ranging from rhino horn theft to the illegal possession of rifles and live ammunition. His bail application continued on Tuesday. During the judgement, delivered today, the magistrate ruled that evidence obtained by police during the subsection 252 entrapment was admissable and denied Mabuza bail. The matter has been postponed to July 27. WHITE RIVER – The waiting room for courtroom A at the local Magistrate’s Court was packed to capacity on Tuesday morning with supporters for Petrus Sydney Mabuza, better known as “Mr Big”. These supporters attended the hearing and greeted Mabuza with open arms and kisses on the hand afterwards. The continuation of this rhino horn kingpin’s bail application started just before 10:00.  The hearing originally started on June 20, after Mabuza was arrested earlier in June when he allegedly transacted with undercover police and received two rhino horns. He was arrested with three other accused, who were charged on six counts related to rhino poaching. Nozwelo Mahumane was released on bail earlier in June, while it was placed on record that Moshe Thobela and Romance Khoza withdrew their bail application. On June 20 and 21 state witnesses argued that the release of Mabuza on bail would not be in the interest of justice. READ ALSO: Mr Big bail application disrupted by gun violence threat On Tuesday advocate SJ Coetzee argued on behalf of Mr Big and highlighted two arguments in favour of bail: The first was that Mabuza was not a flight risk and the second was that he would not be able to interfere with the investigation pending the trial. Coetzee argued that Mabuza is a much-loved and well-respected man in the community and that he has built a family structure. “He is a successful businessman and has created jobs for a lot of people,” Coetzee said, adding that Mabuza has a fixed income of close to R400 000 per month.Mabuza’s health was also a factor that Coetzee asked the court to take into consideration. The community came out in their masses to support him. “The accused was in a car accident in 2015. It is not easy, if not impossible, to become a fugitive in the condition that he is in.” The defence advocate also argued that the charge against Mabuza should have been attempted theft and not theft, as the state, by means of undercover officers, gave Mabuza the opportunity to commit a crime. READ ALSO: The person behind ‘Mr Big’ The state reiterated their previous argument that if Mabuza was to be released on bail, he would and could easily commit a similar crime. On this point the defence made the case that the only previous conviction Mabuza had was in 1992 and that he was thus not likely to be involved in suspicious activity if he was released. After this senior state advocate Vernon Nemaroani made a very emotional case for the denial of Mabuza’s bail. “South Africa is one of the most biodiverse countries in the world. Rhinos are now critically endangered. The court is there to protect species like this and we have to come up with solutions.” The defence argued that Mr Big had health problems and struggled to walk. Nemaroani said that our country’s diversity attracted a lot of tourists and the threat of species becoming extinct had a negative impact on this lucrative industry. He referred to the previous testimony by investigating officer Col Johan Jooste, who placed Mabuza at the scene of the crime and defined him as a level three player in the poaching syndicate. READ ALSO: The truth behind poaching syndicates “He does not get his hands dirty, but pays others to do the work for him,” Nemaroani said, adding that this directly links him to the crime. The issue of the rifle found on Mabuza’s Elawini property was also raised and while the defence said that it was a property that many people had access to, the state said that is was easy to make the necessary deductions. “It is not coincidence that there was a high-calibre hunting rifle found,” the state said. Coetzee asked that bail be posted at R50 000, but that Mabuza would be able to pay more and that the court could get creative if they are scared that he would become a fugitive. He suggested house arrest as one of the options. The state argued that even house arrest would not prevent Mabuza from engaging in similar activities. Petrus Sydney Mabuza surrounded by the community and his legal team. “No amount of money could equate the freedom of the rhinos that get killed everyday,” Nemaroani concluded.The bail judgement was postponed to July 6 at the same court. 