This auspicious occasion marks the end of a long and sometimes difficult year of study, accompanied by the usual challenges that face students endeavouring to find the right path for themselves, career-wise. The students milled about chatting and laughing with anticipation, while parents slowly filtered in to see their progeny accept their certificates and diplomas to immense applause and pride, on the part of ATTI staff, parents and students alike. The teaching/learning process at ATTI is based around a principle that focuses on awakening the inner learner, in the belief that this view encourages an active participation in society as well as a lifelong love of learning. This is accompanied by an education of superlative quality in the Information and Communications Technology sector. This is achieved with the help of excellent staff, cutting-edge qualifications and up to date curricula. Career development is key, and loyalty, pride – as well as emotional ownership – all contribute to an ethical and productive lifestyle. ATTI offer continuous support and development, within a cooperative and honest learning environment. The moral fibre of future generations is of the utmost importance, and as such the carefully and outstanding faculty members make it their business to produce morally sensitive leaders. Conflict resolution via peaceful means, equality of individuals and excellent personal conduct and the importance of global education are continually being strived towards within the academy. The enthusiasm and eagerness the students displayed at their graduation shows the importance of these values. The ceremony was punctuated by moments of sheer delight and playfulness, with a rousing speech to illustrate the gratitude of the learners. Jabulani July Khosa very eloquently expressed his experience with a spirited and heart-warming speech that had many of the audience members thinking hard about his words. He explained that only by focusing on your goals and looking straight ahead, and by not concerning yourself with what was going on with others would your destination be attainable. He stressed that education is the key to the future and laughingly mentioned the importance of the adage that time wasted is never regained. How true this is, and for these young people it is an important thought to factor into their dreams for the future. In closing, a learner’s mother left the graduates with this thought: May your dreams always be big and your worries always be small.