 The premier, Refilwe Mtshweni, says reshuffling her cabinet this week was very painful. She called the press to an urgent briefing on Wednesday morning where she announced that MEC for health Gillion Mashego and MEC for public works, roads and transport Sasekani Manzini would swap portfolios. This came after a demand made by the National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union that Mashego be removed from his department. File picture. The union embarked on a Mpumalanga Provincial Day of Action and marched to the Government Complex where they submitted a memorandum of demands to the premier last Thursday. Their demands also included the removal of the HOD of health due to the collapse of public health care system in the province. Mtshweni said the provincial government would develop a strategic plan of intervention for the department. She had previously announced that it would not be placed under administration. “The union has indicated that there’s a bit of discontent regarding their relationship with the MEC for health. I want the people of Mpumalanga to know that Mashego is one of the better MECs that we have; his contribution, tireless and effort is remarkable.
“When the call was made by the union, we then had to consider it and it was quite painful for me to take it into consideration to say what we need to do and what is at stake given the current situation.  “Ultimately I then reasoned that in the interest of seamless and smooth transition within our government, it is important that we maintain the stability that is in the province.
“I then decided that perhaps I should move Mashego from health to public works and request Manzini to head health,” said Mtshweni. The premier said she has no doubt that they will still unleash their full potential in their new departments. Welcome Mnisi, Nehawu provincial secretary, said the union has welcomed the changes made, although they do not understand what difference will Mashego make at public works. “The premier had to respond to our call of removing the MEC. Looking at the fact that she heard the voices of the masses then responded, we are pleased to see the changes she made. With all that said, however, we do not understand what difference Mashego will make at his new department if he managed to collapse the health sector. “Now that this switch has happened we hope that he will pull up his socks when it comes to delivering service to the people,” he said. Mnisi said the the union is happy that Manzini will be the one heading health. “She is young, energetic, she has vision and is a strong woman. We know in health there are a lot of issues and we are not saying that she is the messiah, although we believe that she has potential to revive the department. “We have worked with her before. We will support her and believe that she will take us far.
“Regardless of the fact that there are concerns about her not having any qualifications in health, let’s support her and give her the opportunity to show us what she can do. We believe in her,” said Mnisi.  The DA reiterated that the Department of Health should be placed under administration. The party outlined its own rescue plan for the embattled department at a press briefing on Thursday morning. It was also attended by the DA’s shadow minister for health, Patricia Kopane. Provincial leader and the party’s spokesman for health in the provincial legislature, Jane Sithole, said they would approach Treasury MEC Sikhumbuzo Kholwane the same day. Sithole said they had already written to the minister of health to seek intervention. She called the move to switch the two MECs “a little too late. “There is no way that Manzini will be able to run that department unless she is set up for failure. She won’t be able to run the department without money and the money is not there.”
She added it was worrisome that Mashego was moved to another important department. “It is like saying you have damaged the health department, now you can move to public works. He has left a huge hole which Manzini will not be able to fill.”