 Ruda Landman, well-known television presenter and the author of the book Tell me your Story, was interviewed by Lowvelder editor De Wet Potgieter. She took guests on a journey from her youth in the Northern Cape, through her years as a student at the University of Stellenbosch, as journalist and presenter of Carte Blanche, and as freelancer-cum-mother and housewife, to author. After qualifying herself as a teacher, majoring in Afrikaans and English, she decided to rather join a newspaper. In those days it was just easier to study for an educational qualification due to the availability of bursaries. Read more: Alex Jay vier sy eerste fees by Innibos When M-Net launched the Carte Blanche investigative programme, she was approached to join, she grabbed it with both hands. Although the variety of inserts was difficult at the time, she found it very interesting. “During those years (late 80s and early 90s) interviewing for example a gay couple who wanted to adopt a child, and actor and playwright John Kani, was unusual and exciting,” she recalled. Asked where the idea for the book came from, she said it was born from her work for a life insurance company who used the slogan “Changes as your life changes”.  She held several interviews for its website called The Change Exchange. This is a resource centre to help people deal with life’s massive changes and how they affect people’s health, life and pocket. “Walking with them through their lives, learning why and how choices were made, made me decide to pen down and make public some of those stunning stories,” she said. She chose interviews for the book to be as representative of the population as possible. “One can only see the world from your own point of view. I wanted to depict the other side too. It was more difficult to decide which stories not to use, than choosing those to include in the book,” she admitted. Read more: Ruk en rol: Iets vir almal She even included an “interview” with herself, offering an interesting conclusion to the book.
Asked about the future, she revealed that she plans to help her husband with a book on economic transformation in South Africa. Although Landman can create a good story from any interview, we will unfortunately never be able to read about Donald Trump from her pen. She said she has no desire to interview him, since “he just is not real enough!”