 MBOMBELA – In a recent incident a baby was found in a dustbin at The Plaza and in another tragedy, a mother left hers in the care of a total stranger at the taxi rank and fled the scene. According to Child Welfare office manager, Nomfundo Myeza, the baby was brought to the police by a community member and she was placed in a temporary safe house. Myeza said since the beginning of January they have received 13 babies in their Mbombela branch alone, and that 40 per cent of all the babies they have to place in safe houses have been dumped in the streets.  She urged mothers who do not want theirs to please report to the social workers at Child Welfare, SAVF or the Christelike Maatskaplike Raad (CMR). READ ALSO: Child Welfare’s Amazing Race for 2018 “Mothers should know that there are places they can go,” Myeza said, and pleaded that moms do not just leave their babies in the hospital. “All hospitals have social workers. Mothers should please speak to one and at least officially sign the baby over to the correct authorities.” Christel van Zyl, a social worker at CMR, agreed with Myeza. She said that even though they have not had any abandoned babies in the Mbombela and White River area this year, they are unsure about the offices in the rural areas. “They usually are taken directly to CMR Mpumalanga and thus we are not sure how many abandoned babies we have had this year,” Van Zyl said. Apart from hospitals or welfare organisations, there is a new option on the horizon. Even though it has not made its way to Mbombela yet, the so-called “baby bins” are making waves in metros across the country. This is described as a hatch on the side of the house where mothers can leave their babies. As soon as a baby is placed in the hatch, an alarm goes off inside the house, alerting the people inside of the new arrival. Babies are then placed in safe houses. READ ALSO: Child Welfare needs community support “This is a far better alternative to the gruesome realities we come across,” Myeza said. Child Welfare in Mbombela can be contacted on 013-753-3330 or Childline SA on 080-005-5