 According to the contract GWM and BMW signed, the joint venture (JV) with 50% of the shares held by the two companies respectively, is named Spotlight Automotive, with a registered capital of RMB5,1 billion (approximately R10.2 billion). The JV has planned an international advanced vehicle plant with an annual standard capacity of 160 000 vehicles. This is the first battery electric vehicle (BEV) joint venture project for the BMW Group worldwide and the bridgehead for the GWM new energy vehicles (NEV) to enter the global market. Also read: Preparing for a 16 500km journey through South Africa As one of 10 key national development fields in China, “energy-saving and new energy vehicles” aim to promote the travel modes centered on low-carbon energy conservation and environmental protection. The cooperation between GWM and BMW effectively responds to the optimisation and upgrade of the new energy industry in China. Great Wall Motor has layouts in the core areas of new energy vehicles, such as motors, electric controls, and power batteries. It has built batteries, mechanism analysis, PACK, BMS trial laboratories, and battery trial workshops, test centres, and analysis centres. In addition, Great Wall Motor has established a new energy technology R&D centre in Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, South Korea, and Lower Austria, Austria, using state-of-the-art talent resources to collaborate with domestic development of advanced technologies. Also read: All you will need to visit Africa is a classic Mini The cooperation of Great Wall and BMW is a new example of open cooperation between China’s auto industry and a trend of optimising and integrating resources around the world. It is conducive to integrating each other’s expertise and deepening the broader international market. GWM is a world-renowned SUV manufacturing company with a deep understanding of the Chinese auto market and a far-reaching layout for the international market. BMW is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of automobiles and motorcycles. It has a history of 100 years of manufacturing. It owns four brands, namely BMW, Mini, Rolls-Royce and BMW Motorrad. It also provides auto finance and high-end travel services. This cooperation is a powerful complement to BMW’s global strategy for new energy vehicles and to the international strategy of GWM. It is a strong alliance of powerhouses. In the future, through deep cooperation between the two sides in brand building, management system, manufacturing and technology research and development, it will certainly open up a broader market space and accelerate the globalisation process and the pace of new energy development.