 MBOMBELA – Jano Erwee, a 19-year-old resident recently interrupted his studies to take on a mammoth 16 500-kilometre journey across Africa on a 150cc Honda he calls Juliette. Why? “Well, why not?” he asks. His only companion – Coco a teddy bear he got when he was five years old. His journey’s name is Sunboyy 1, and he got the idea from the television show Voetspore which he is very fond of. The presenters, Johan Badenhorst and his team of six, driving three four-wheel-drive vehicles, travelled more than 300 000 kilometres on the continent, visiting 40 countries.   “They showed me what actually can be done. Although they go with fancy Land Cruiser ’79 4.5 V8s, it could still be just as much or even more adventurous on a small motorcycle alone,” he said. Erwee will try to average between 250 and 300 kilometres per day. “It will be about people, new places, and many experiences from which I will gain personal growth, insight and wisdom.” He dropped out of mechanical engineering at Tuks, came home and started waiting tables at Marlin Pub and Grill as his father was mad at him for abandoning his studies. “In November 2017 he agreed to finance my helicopter private pilot licence, which I completed,” he said. Later he had the opportunity to do a four-month international diploma in digital marketing at ATTI Nelspruit which he also recently completed. During the course he worked at Marlins and Innibos to save money to embark on the trip. Erwee also worked as an apprentice at Protek, doing maintenance on KTM off-road and Enduro bikes, or any make of bike really which prepared him well for the trip that started on July 8. Nine days later he reached Tanzania. “I already had four flat tyres and a dirty fuel filter, and was able to fix it myself,” he said.  “I felt like I had wings to fly but no space to test them out. Studies trapped me,” he said. “I will go to study next year. As for now, I will have fun and share some content on my Facebook page. 2018 is my gap year,” Erwee said. Also read: Electric violinist is making waves 