 Building on a remarkable 70-year racing pedigree, David Brabham has announced Brabham Automotive’s return to manufacturing of its first product, the stunning BT62. It continues the legendary BT naming convention established by founders Jack Brabham and Ron Tauranac in the 1960s and honours the legacy of the marque’s greatest and most memorable cars. Heralding the start of an exciting new chapter for the iconic marque, the BT62 has been specifically designed, developed and tested to reward like no other. Designed from the ground up, featuring a host of unique engineering details, the Brabham BT62 draws on the project team’s vast experience to create a car without equal. Crafted from lightweight carbon fibre, the BT62’s exterior surface and aggressive aerodynamic package combine to strike the optimal balance between function and form. The Brabham BT62 has been designed and engineered to demand more from its driver. It’s a car for those who want to challenge themselves and their limitations to experience driving in its purest form. Also read: Loading two new arrows into Husqvarna’s quiver With a base price of £1m plus local taxes, and before options, production of the Brabham BT62 will be limited to just 70 cars in recognition of Brabham’s 70-year heritage; the first 35 of which will celebrate the 35 Grand Prix victories won by Brabham over its 30-year reign in Formula 1. First 35 Brabham’s made will be to celebrate 35 Grand Prix victories won by Brabham. With a long-term plan in place and a phased product development programme under way, the company’s ultimate goal is to see the iconic Brabham name return to compete on the race track, with the 24 Hours of Le Mans firmly in its sights. As next in the line of legendary racers, the Brabham BT62 carries more than just the Brabham name – it shares its DNA.
Working to the same brief as each of the BT-designated vehicles that came before it, David Brabham has led the team to design and develop a car to deliver blistering on-track performance. In producing the BT62, the team has followed the same pragmatic approach that saw Brabham achieve 35 Formula 1 Grand Prix wins and four World Championships. Brabham BT62 Front Quarter View designed to demand more from its driver. Charged with overseeing the development of the Brabham BT62, Brabham Automotive’s director of technology and engineering Paul Birch, said, “Created from a blank sheet of paper, our first car takes Brabham into an exciting new era, while honouring and upholding the marque’s glorious past. Using contemporary materials, processes and technologies, and following a rigorous two-year engineering and development programme, the resulting BT62 is a car that demands total engagement and commitment from its driver, delivering immense reward and satisfaction.” Also read: Mazda CX-3 releases interior and exterior updates The Brabham BT62 is a mid-engined track car, with its power-driven to the rear wheels via a rear-mounted race-spec transmission. With a dry weight of just 972kg, the vehicle is incredibly light, and boasts a power to weight ratio of 730ps/tonne.
Power comes from a Brabham 5,4 litre V8 engine which produces 522kW and 667Nm. With its performance-optimised body and aggressive aerodynamic package, the Brabham BT62 delivers over 1 200kg of downforce. Brabham BT62 will be limited to 70 cars only. Production of the Brabham BT62 will be limited to just 70 cars to celebrate the seven decades since Sir Jack Brabham launched his racing career in Australia in 1948 and the birth of Brabham Automotive in 2018. The Brabham story began in 1948 when Sir Jack Brabham made his Australian competition debut. Sir Jack went on to become a triple world champion and in 1966 became the first, and still the only, driver to win a Formula 1 World Championship in a car of his own construction. Now 70 years on, Brabham remains one of the world’s most iconic motorsport marques with a lineage of champion racers, engineers and innovators. Spearheaded by David Brabham, Brabham Automotive continues that rich heritage and continues the Brabham story into the 21st century, presenting cars which defy convention. Despite only building its first car in 1961, by the mid-1960s Brabham had become the largest manufacturer of single-seat racing cars in the world, and by 1970 had built over 500 cars. Brabham had the reputation of providing customers with cars of a standard equal to those used by the works team and provided a high degree of support to its clients, with Jack even assisting with car setup. Brabham Automotive is a company built on the same values that have defined its winning dynasty from the beginning.