 There have been endless proposals and public hearings, but South Africans are not much closer to enjoying drastic reductions in the cost of data. The processes ICASA is using to engage with the industry are too slow and the mobile industry finds reason to delay once implementation has been decided on. An example of this is Cell C’s urgent application filed on Wednesday 6 June 2018 to seek a postponement of the implementation of the End-User and subscriber service charter regulations published on 7 May 2018. Industry and ICASA could have come to some other agreement but the opportunity was missed. This raises the issue of the lack of consultation with various disciplines inside the mobile companies. Although, in defence of Cell C, many of the other service providers also asked for extensions ranging between two and six months. In a recent media briefing ICASA councillor, Botlenyana Mokhele, said that the review of the 2016 regulations was underpinned by the general concern about the data expiry and out-of-bundle data rules which are perceived as prejudicial to consumers. On 6 June ICASA published amendments to the End-user and Subscriber Service Charter regulation of 7 August 2017. Also read: Data firm suspends CEO over Facebook scandal But here is the problem: it was expected that the mobile industry would have been able to comply within the 30-day period. It appears the operators are not ready to meet all the new conditions by the deadline given. However, not one of the operators at the media briefing raised concern about not being able to meet the implementation date. The briefing took place before the new regulations were announced, so there was an opportunity to have raised a concern about the short 30-day implementation period. Also read: Facebook revamps privacy settings amid data breach outcry The ICASA CEO, Willington Ngwepe, said that the authority is following a three-phase process. The next phase is the identification of priority markets flowed by a review and investigation into pricing. ICASA has kept to its word to fast-track the process. The hearing on priority markets has already taken place and it was agreed that the priority is the mobile market.  But another issue remains. The mobile operators claim that lack of spectrum is the main cause of high data costs, while government has been making noises about making spectrum available. Government is allegedly planning to resubmit the ECA Amendment Bill incorporating many changes proposed by industry. Meanwhile, the world moves on while South Africa deliberates and South Africans become more and more dissatisfied.  Original content from: ICASA  