 The number of the people who attended the Mpumalanga hearings on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution indicated how serious the matter of land is to the public. The Joint Constitutional Review Committee is touring the country to hear people’s views. The Mbombela meeting was held at AFM Communio Church on Monday.People from all walks of life attended. ALSO READ:Mpumalanga public hearings on land expropriation Emotions could be heard in their voices as different speakers stated their views.
Those who interrupted and booed a speaker were stopped immediately and asked to leave as the committee wanted each person to have a fair opportunity to share their view. Vincent Smith, chairman of the review committee, said that they had some very tense public hearings elsewhere.
“This crowd in Mbombela is probably one of the largest we have seen, yet it is very peaceful. Everyone has had the opportunity to speak and there were very few interdictions from our side to ask people to keep quiet. “We are impressed with the behaviour of the people of Mbombela. Once you see so many people, you get worried that things could get out of hand. We always interject if we think people are intimidating others.” ALSO READ:Deadline for land debate extended for public’s sake The decision to hold public hearings follows a mandate by the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces to determine whether a review of Section 25 of the Constitution and other clauses are necessary to make it possible for the state to expropriate land in the public interest without compensation.  Phumzile Hlatshwayo could not hold back her tears and she started crying when she explained the reason why she wanted Section 25 to be reviewed. She said she felt pain because she went through much during the struggle and she felt it would be fair if she could at least have a home of her own.
“I was there during the youth uprising in 1976 and I played my part. All I am asking for is a yard that is mine. I live in a place where the living conditions are not good at all. It is hard for all of us. The space is small and we are struggling,” she said.
Geoffrey Anderson, from Mikon Farming, told Lowvelder that he understands and agrees that there have definitely been wrongs in the past, that the apartheid government made a lot of mistakes, but it should not be up to an innocent individual to pay the price. “We currently still have the bond on the farm that we are paying. If it is taken away, we will not be able to do it anymore, as we rely on the farm for funds. I feel their pain and there can be land redistribution, but it cannot be without compensation,” said Anderson.  Smith said that he was impressed with the arguments presented.
“We were planning for 350 people, although my impression is that we had underestimated the interest of the people. “The quality of the discussions, the arguments are very impressive, both those that are supporting and those that are not supporting. When we compare this to what we received in writing, a person would just send one line saying, ‘I support’ or ‘I do not support’.
“This is not a referendum. It doesn’t matter how many times you repeat the same argument. What matters is the quality of the arguments,” Smith explained. Ken Robertson, the DA’s shadow deputy minister of rural development and land reform, said the submissions humbled him. “The underlying sentiment, no matter your stance on whether the Constitution should be changed, is that land reform needs to happen,” he said in a statement. “While there are many stories about the ANC’s utter failure to speed up land reform, the Mala Mala game reserve land claim demonstrates the current stumbling blocks hampering land reform and restitution.” The portfolio committee has agreed that a forensic audit be done into the deal.The Constitutional Review Committee has until August 30 to report back to parliament on the public consultation process.