 Nissan recently released the new Micra. After driving it the past weekend, I understand the logic of their marketing campaign and the motivation behind the “un-expect it” slogan. It suits the car perfectly, because whatever your perception is of the Micra, it will change once you have driven and given it the up-close “beady” eye. It is, in my mind, one of – if not the most – beautiful B-segment offering at this time. “Bold, contemporary, premium?” Yes, I will support all those suggestions. Is there a tad Qashqai in there? Perhaps, especially when one looks at the side profile. The sculpted wave-like shoulder line is particularly sensual in the way it links with the bonnet design. The way light plays on these soft yet edgy lines and surfaces is superbly enticing and gentle while still leaving one to admire the cheekiness of the total design. The front end is truly attractive and demanding of one’s attention with those elongated head light clusters, reduced A-pillars and subtle design folds across the bonnet. At the rear, the light clusters remind me of someone pulling up their shoulder towards their heads, but it’s dynamic in terms of the overall impression. Also read: Toyota Gazoo hasn’t missed a beat Upon entering and making myself comfortable in the driver’s seat, I was immediately impressed with its comfort and full back support. “This is going to be a good weekend drive,” I thought. The office is a vibrant space filled with a dash of colour, soft-touch materials on the dashboard and a vibrant and easy-to-access layout. The seven-inch TFT screen allows you to connect your iPhone in a manner that will even make Siri happy, so access to your music, pre-loaded routes and GPS settings will be at your fingertips, not requiring you to take your eyes off the road. A five-inch display behind the steering provides the driver with info about the journey and the car. With six airbags and a host of safety and luxury features, I am convinced that the new Micra will change your perceptions about small cars. It is quite spacious inside as a result of it being just on four meters long – certainly more spacious than our Figo. Many years ago when I took over as editor of the Autodealer Lowveld, I made a conscious decision not to read up on any new products until after I had the opportunity to actually drive the vehicle. I have maintained this intention. So, considering the vibrant performance of the Micra just after a short distance, I decided that it certainly must be kitted with, at least a 1,5-litre three cylinder engine. Imagine my surprise when I eventually checked the specs and realised that she is in fact only sporting a 900cc, albeit turbo-charged, engine. Really – yes and it offers a wonderful energetic drive. It develops 66kW and 140Nm and does confront one with the odd turbo lag if you don’t utilise the engine revs effectively, but heck, it’s such fun to drive. Power is driven to the wheels via a quiet and smooth five-speed manual gearbox. Also read: Loading two new arrows into Husqvarna’s quiver My fuel index throughout the weekend rendered less than 15km/litre. On the open road we achieved 20km/litre plus so with its 41-litre tank capacity, one may well cover at least 800km on a tank. The Micra’s feel is light and vibrant with precise steering and good road holding through corners even when you push it just a tad. And, it is exceptionally quiet on the road despite the odd loud feedback into the cabin when road surfaces present hard and irregular speed-bump-like challenges. With its supportive seats, low engine noise, vibrant performance and large open interior, it presents one with a larger-car driving experience: stable, quiet and wonderfully enjoyable. Certainly not to be considered a downgrade if you are used to larger cars. Pricing on the Micra starts at R233 500. It offers a lot and will attract, I think, both the young and vibrant as well as the more mature, creative type who havn’t lost their sense of adventure and individuality. You’ve got to go drive it…