 It was an emotional meeting for the locals during the Mpumalanga hearings on the possible review of Section 25 on Monday at AFM Communio Church in Mbombela. Emotions could be seen and heard as members of the public stated their views to a delegation of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee. Some expressed their emotions through tears, some through anger. A number seemed very worried and others expressed their thoughts on placards.  The decision to hold public hearings follows a mandate by the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces to determine whether a review of Section 25 of the Constitution and other clauses are necessary to make it possible for the state to expropriate land in the public interest without compensation, and propose the necessary constitutional amendments where necessary. The meeting unleashed different views. Some people wanted Section 25 to be reviewed, others wanted it changed completely and some said it could be reviewed with compensation.  Phumzile Hlatshwayo could not hold back her tears and she started crying when she explained the reason why she wanted Section 25 to be reviewed. She said she felt pain because she went through much pain during the struggle and she felt it would be fair if she could at least have a home of her own. “I was there during the youth uprising in 1976 and I played my part. All I am asking for is a yard that is mine. I live in a place where the living conditions are not good at all. It is hard for all of us. The space is small and we are struggling,” she said.  Geoffrey Anderson from Mikon Farming told Lowvelder that he understands and agrees that there have definitely been wrongs in the past, that the apartheid government made a lot of mistakes, but it should not be up to an innocent individual to pay the price. “We currently still have the bond on the farm that we are paying. If it is taken away, we will not be able to do it anymore as we rely on the farm for funds. I feel their pain and there can be land redistribution, but it cannot be without compensation,” said Anderson.