 PILGRIM’S REST – One of these was last weekend, when a busy programme was staged by the remaining townsfolk and business operators, together with the local museum services and Mpumalanga Heritage, a registered civic organisation for historic preservation. “Though conditions here are quite desperate, it is important to keep up appearances and show the travelling public as well as possible investors what resources are still available among the people and in Pilgrim’s Rest,” said chairman of Mpumalanga Heritage, Duncan Ballantyne. On Friday evening, the main drag came alive with the honky-tonk sound of a piano performance at the famous The Vine Pub and Restaurant in downtown Pilgrim’s. This was the end destination of the famous Pilgrim’s Rest pub crawl which started at the Church Bar at the Royal Hotel past Dino’s Tavern in the township, and just out of town to the exquisitely decorated Victorian clubhouse at the golf course in the valley. Also read: BREAKING NEWS: Unrest near Pilgrim’s Rest On Saturday Mpumalanga Heritage arranged a well-attended historic outing along the old ox wagon transport routes from Lydenburg, past Pilgrim’s to Mac-Mac Falls. Some people attending came from as far as Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal for the event. Others were treated to gold-panning demonstrations, high teas and museum tours, all topped by an early-evening ghost tour at the haunted Allanglade Manor. No digger’s ball and banquet is the real thing without some local high-kicking cancan girls. This once was the dwelling of the mine manager in the days when Pilgrim’s was still a vibrant gold-producing town, later to become a museum village of international standards due to its well-preserved structures and atmosphere from a previous era. Always a highlight of these special weekends is the digger’s ball and banquet, when dressing up in your Victorian finery is required, complete with a troupe of rowdy cancan girls transforming the atmosphere into a experience of days gone by. Meeting here at Dino’s Tavern are Thaba Chweu ward councillor, Robert Ngobeni with Leona Oosthuizen, proprietor of the Stables Restaurant, across the road from the Royal Hotel. “This is what the Pilgrim’s experience should be all about, offering activities and real-life experiences as it was in the past,” said Johnny Reynders, one of the remaining business operators here. Also read: The deterioration of the historical town of Pilgrim’s Rest “It is currently clear that the Mpumalanga provincial administration does not realise the importance of managing and maintaining Pilgrim’s Rest as a proper economic effective heritage asset. “Though the general atmosphere basically remains, due to limited upkeep and maintenance by the department thanks to budgetary constraints, half of the businesses in town are standing empty. Many of the dwellings are derelict and occupied by people not involved in the cultural uplifting of the place,” said Ballantyne. At Saturday evening’s diggers ball at the Royal Hotel. Heyns and Wilma Theron met Du Milandre en Magda Nel He also visited the ruins of what used to be one of the foremost camp and caravan sites in South Africa. He described this devastation of a local economic and public asset as shocking. Ballantyne vowed that Mpumalanga Heritage will continue its endeavour to keep Pilgrim’s Rest alive and in its original state. Ways will have to be found to revive it to its former glory. He has since gone on record on several SABC radio stations promoting the possible privatisation of the town and its museum and cultural activities, before more damage is done. This will also relieve the provincial administration of one more financial burden.