 Promoting hygiene and uplifting the confidence of disadvantaged children is the goal of the Keeping Our Kids Clean initiative. The project gives less-fortunate children care packs with toiletries and educates them on how to take care of themselves. Every pack contains toothpaste, shoe polish, a face cloth and sanitary towels for girls. Keeping Our Kids Clean is a local NGO founded by Thabo Malatjie from Daantjie. He was inspired to start this project when he saw how disadvantaged children in rural schools were struggling. ALSO READ:The Grove SUPERSPAR makes sizeable donation “Some kids are forced to share a toothbrush due their home environment and this results in them transferring diseases to one another. We know that we are not raised by families that are equal, some have more and some have less. Some can’t afford toiletries, some do not have parents, some live with grandparents who depend on pensions and it is not enough,” he explained.  Malatjie also has two people assisting in the project, Dlani Segauke and Thabo Maluka. Keeping Our Kids Clean assists children from different schools in the City of Mbombela, Nkomazi, Bushbuckridge and Thaba Chweu local municipalities. To date they have managed to bring change for 60 000 kids. “This number of children was assisted between November 2017 and March 30, 2018. Our target is to reach 200 000 pupils in 2018.”
Malatjie explained that people made donations into boxes placed at various offices and businesses. “We managed to help them from the contributions we received from the public and we would not have been able to do it without their assistance. We want to bring change to our community as we promote hygiene. We also do school outreaches to mentor them about cleanliness and other issues such as school dropouts, killing of teenagers, especially girls, teenage pregnancy as well as drug and alcohol abuse.”
They are currently in need of another 10 000 care packs. “As an NGO we need all the help we can get and this is the only way that we can reach our target,” Malatjie concluded. You can contact him on
082-427-7879 or keepingourkids@gmail.com.