 MBOMBELA – “They say old rockers never die, they just fade away. But I am not yet ready to fade away,” explained Lowvelder editor De Wet Potgieter. BosRock is his brainchild and it is aimed at lovers of old-school rock music. “It has always been my dream to organise a real, raw ‘bad to the bone’ rock show and now is the time to do so. The Lowveld prides itself with the most wonderful pristine surroundings and tourist attractions to lure rockers from all over the country to such an event.”  And the rockers are on their way. Mahindra Nelspruit has come on board as the main sponsor. Kwanyoni Lodge & Restaurant is the perfect venue, and Storm Produktionz are the event organisers. ALSO SEE: All the action at the Kishugu Lowveld Air Show 2018 Headed by the one and only Mel Botes, who is bringing some of the best South African rock acts to the Lowveld. The RIDERS, of which Botes, Valiant Swart, Piet Botha and Robin Auld are the core members, will headline the concert.  “It is important to know that this will be different from any other festival,” Botes told the newspaper. “You won’t find RIDERS at any other festival, because we are not always together.” The band sees six legendary guitar players jam together, all at once, as well as only two or three at a time, and play against each other, all with a full band (bass, drums and keyboards). “We easily perform 20 or more songs in a set,” Botes said. The core group is heading for BosRock, and an additional two to be invited will be announced at a later stage.  Botes promises it will feature amazing songs, sound and visual support. With Kwanyoni as the venue, the setting will be beautiful too, and intimate. The RIDERS will perform their own songs, as well as classics ranging from The Doors (which inspired their name with the song “Riders on the Storm”) to ZZ Top and Pink Floyd’s “Dark Side of the Moon”. “This is going to be old-school hard rock,” explained Julia Burger, Lowveld Media’s marketing manager. Of course, youngsters are not excluded. Listening to the old masters, such as Led Zeppelin and Bruce Springsteen, and wearing their T-shirts is cool. Just do not expect a mosh pit. The rest of the line-up will be announced closer to the time. Lowvelder’s favourite local acts will also rock the stage and local businesses are encouraged to get involved. “I would like to see BosRock become one of the top annual events on the Lowveld’s calendar,” Potgieter said. ALSO READ: Rock na hartelus by vanjaar se fees