 Local adventurous aviators, Eugene Cussons and Francois Theron will embark on a gruelling cross-country paramotor race known as the Icarus Trophy. It is the first Icarus Trophy to be arranged on the African continent and it will feature new elements such as crossing borders and landing at mandatory checkpoints. Billed as the “toughest air race in the world”, the Icarus Trophy is a near 1 300km test of ultimate endurance and pilot skill. The race will start on Wednesday at Bill Harrop Balloon Safaris in Hartbeespoort Dam and will end at the Victoria Falls in Zimbabwe. “I trained for race class on one of the most advanced gliders in the world, doing over 260 cross-country flights over a year, landing at typical locations to be experienced on the Icarus, including vehicle fuel stations and rest stops. I also competed in the Icarus X race earlier this year in preparation. The Icarus X is a sort of warm-up race over a 400km. “I made a bad call on the weather by trying to fly around a storm instead of waiting it out. It put me in a position where I had to gain an additional 60km on the race leader and ultimately I came second,” said Cussons. The principal challenge is to travel the course unsupported from the designated start point to the designated finish line, travelling in the directions of the course only by paramotor or on foot. Cussons and Theron will be part of the Nirvana Racing team competition, which will be comprised of six pilots from the Czech Republic and South Africa. “I have been using been using Nirvana for the past four years as part of the development of anti-poaching technologies, and the Icarus is an opportunity for me to prove that our systems can achieve remarkable feats of endurance and task.” In total there will be 31 racers from all over the world. The aviators will hopefully arrive at Victoria Falls by August 1. For more information regarding the Icarus Trophy, visit www.icarustrophy.com. For those who are not aware… Paramotor is a generic name for the propulsive portion of a powered paraglider. The aircraft consists of a frame that combines the motor, propeller, harness (with integrated seat) and cage. It provides two attachment points for the risers of a paraglider wing that allows for powered flight. Pilots who fly these engage in paramotoring, which is also known as powered paragliding. The engines are small, and are favoured for their high output power and light weight. The pilot controls thrust by a hand-held throttle and steers using the paraglider’s brake toggles. This mechanism is similar to that of a sport parachutist’s. The parachute on the paramotor helps the pilot glide when he chooses to turn off the engine. Also read: Motau part of Proteas training squad “Ash the Dash” on his way to Gold Coast 