 On June 24, the Alfa Romeo brand turned 108 years old, in fact, the first car to bear the A.L.F.A. brand on its radiator, the 24 HP (18kW), was designed even before the Anonima Lombarda Fabbrica was founded on June 24, 1910, and the “Corsa” version immediately achieved excellent results in various competitions. Alfa Romeo’s 108 years of history are characterised by a DNA made of racing and competition, which is reflected today in the special limited edition colours of the Nürburgring Edition Giulia Quadrifoglio “NRING” and Stelvio Quadrifoglio “NRING”. These are two extraordinary cars with just 108 of each model made to mark Alfa Romeo’s 108 years. Also read: Alfa Romeo GT ready to make its debut They represent the brand’s excellence in terms of technical content, performance and style. In addition to these elements, there is the satisfying and exclusive customer experience, intended for collectors and the most loyal customers who will be driving these concentrates of prized performance and technology. In fact, in addition to the characteristics of the Quadrifoglio versions, the “NRING” versions have full specs equipment and a dedicated “Welcome kit”. The 380 kW, 2.9 V6 Bi-Turbo engine adopted on the Giulia and Stelvio Quadrifoglio is the most powerful Alfa Romeo engine available for road use today. It is also capable of excelling on the track – it is no coincidence that the Stelvio Quadrifoglio is the fasted SUV in the world, holding first position in the category on the Nürburgring circuit, where Alfa Romeo has written indelible pages of its long and glorious history. The Stelvio exploited its 600Nm of torque, acceleration from 0 to 100km/h in 3,8 seconds and top speed of 283km/h to cover the 20,832km of the Nordschleife in seven minutes, 51,7 seconds. This season also marked Alfa Romeo’s return to the Formula 1 tracks, and the celebrations that the Museo Storico di Arese has planned for its birthday are a tribute its “cuore sportivo” (sports heart). For the occasion, the C37 Alfa Romeo Sauber F1 Team showcar will be at the “La Macchina del Tempo” to represent the link between the brand’s past, present and future. In Arese, in fact, the “Alfetta” 158 with which Nino Farina won the first Formula 1 Championship in 1960, and the 159 in which Juan Manuel Fangio repeated the feat the following year, are permanently exhibited. For one day, this historically rich place will transform into a stand from which fans can watch the “Pirelli” Formula 1 Grand Prix in France, in collaboration with Sky Sports. To recreate the atmosphere, not only is there the charming C37, but also the original overalls worn by the official drivers of the Alfa Romeo Sauber F1 Team, Charles Leclerc and Marcus Ericsson, in the first races of the 2018 F1 Championship, autographed by the drivers. Also read: The ultimate expression of Alfa Romeo style The event is scheduled for 16:10 in Sala Giulia – the hall in which the car that represents the new paradigm of the Alfa Romeo brand was presented for the first time worldwide on June 24, 2015 – for live coverage of the race from Le Castellet. A paradigm of evident success: In fact, the Alfa Romeo Giulia was recently awarded the “Compasso d’Oro ADI”, the most authoritative global design prize, awarded by a panel of specialised experts, designers, critics, historians and journalists, and the award will be exhibited at the Museo Storico. Giulia, like every Alfa Romeo, springs from the perfect balance of heritage, speed and beauty that makes it the highest expression of Italian style in the automotive world. It incorporates all of the distinguishing features of quintessential Italian style and the unique elements that Alfa Romeo has expressed with extreme evolutionary consistency for 108 years; an impeccable sense of proportions, simplicity and superior surface quality finish, for an innovative design that is faithful to a universally appreciated tradition.