 New on the programme is a shorter guided tour following the waymarkers and sites of significance on the new Jock Trek 1885 in the area of Pilgrim’s Rest on the Saturday morning. This regular event is organised by the business chamber and museum services of Pilgrim’s Rest, together with Mpumalanga Heritage. The public is invited to experience and to relive the past as portrayed in this quaint historic village as it was in the days of the gold rush in the late 1800s. Special rates at a R1 000 per room for the two nights for two people sharing in the charming Victorian-style Royal Hotel have been arranged. Also book your table for the old-fashion digger’s banquet and ball on the Saturday night. Also read: The deterioration of the historical town of Pilgrim’s Rest All are requested to dress up in Victorian finery for this evening of merriment, complete with can-can girls and barmaids up for auction. Starting on Friday evening the weekend will start with the usual pub crawl down the main street. Brace yourself against the winter chill and answer the call of bagpipes and the convivial banter and laughter in the various cosy pubs along the way. On Saturday and Sunday the programme will include organised gold panning at the recently refurbished old mining camp, morning tea and scones at a quaint sidewalk tearoom or coffee shop, or a stroll down the high street, savouring the atmosphere of days gone by while wandering into the various shops and museums. Do not miss a guided tour to the Allanglade Manor House Museum, with its splendid collection of art nouveau, arts and crafts, art deco furniture and artefacts on display. The special Jock Trek tour will start in nearby Lydenburg and end at noon back in Pilgrim’s Rest. This will include many new discoveries along the way, including the actual site of Paradise Camp and a detailed visit to the original diggings at Mac Mac. Places mentioned in the book, Jock of the Bushveld but never identified before, will be the overhanging rock and the iron store at North Camp.
The long-awaited book Forgotten Track and Trail by Gerrit Haarhof, will also be available on sale and will serve as an excellent guide to this section of the old Jock Trek 1885 route. Also read: Come fly the coop with Alicia to the tiny town of Leydsdorp The nine-hole golf course, with its antique club house resembling a gentlemen’s club of years gone by, offers a perfect rendezvous for afternoon drinks, later to be followed by catching up on the day’s sport on SuperSport at The Vine in downtown Pilgrim’s Rest. Fishing in the Blyde for rainbow trout and yellow fish can also be arranged here. Book early, as space is limited. Contact Lela Smyth at the Royal for all your accommodation needs at 013-768-1100 or Brummer Tours at 082-522-1958 or Pilgrims Rest tourism information at 013-768-1060.