The economic and social injustices of the Apartheid system has led to many people in South Africa having limited access to opportunities which included legally-validated access to land with title deeds. It is currently estimated that there are between 5 and 7 million properties (especially in townships) without title deeds, with almost 20 million South Africans living insecurely in these homes. Two private institutions making a difference by empowering underprivileged households with title deeds are Free Market Foundation through the Khaya Lam Land Reform Project, in partnership with Private Property. The handover of 30 title deeds will take place on the 11th of July at 10AM at the Master Nakedi Sports Centre in Tumahole (Parys). Since 2010, the Khaya Lam project has handed over more than 6000 title deeds to deserving households. The mayor of Ngwathe Municipality, Ms Joey Mochela will be the guest of honour, there to witness this historic handover. Elderly beneficiaries accompanied by younger relatives will all gather to receive title deeds and bear witness to the power of a private sector charity driven initiative.Why does a title deed matter?  For recipients of these title deeds, including mostly the elderly, pensioners, single parent families and the unemployed, this is a giant leap towards attaining economic freedom, social and economic dignity, security and the ability to improve and maintain one’s property. For future purposes and in the event that the original title deed is lost or destroyed, or the registered holder is deceased, mentally incapable or insolvent, the registered holder’s legally recognised representative may lodge an application to the registrar of deeds to obtain a certified copy of the deed. The written application must be accompanied by an affidavit which must contain: The Free Market Foundation through the Khaya Lam Land Reform Project, in partnership with Private Property can be credited for going the extra mile in correcting past injustices and empowering the underprivileged with sought after title deeds. If you want more information on this project please visit the Free Market Foundation website. 