 MBOMBELA – The generosity of the community did not end on Madiba Day with the upgrading of Blessing Crèche in Mataffin. Lowvelder previously reported on businesses and individuals joining hands to upgrade this school under the watchful eye of Stabilis and Penreach.  The newspaper returned to the school on Friday to see the results. Except for the original sponsors mentioned in the previous article, others also came on board to do their part. A new cupboard in the classroom was installed thanks to Chris Richter from C&R wood and steel, while Hanas Hardware made a cash contribution.  Norse Projects was a major contributor to the success of the day, sourcing Roofing Solution, Winmar, Loo 4 U and NP Wood who brought their own sets of skills to the school.  Titan Projects made a permanent upgrade to the school by putting up rails for school bags and Steynsrust contributed to the garden and donated two gas burners. On the day RE/MAX provided a jumping castle for the children to play in. Penreach, which is permanently involved in the school, thanked businesses for their help in the project and urged them to keep on contributing to it.  “Our main goal is to achieve educational excellence. We want to educate teachers, raise health standards and make sure that the centre functions in the right way,” said Penreach spokesman, Candice Streek. “We call on businesses to invest in educational excellence for all South Africans,” Streek added. Mariam Chibambo, the founder of the day-care centre, said she is truly grateful for everything that was done at Blessing Crèche. READ ALSO: IN PICTURES: Lowveld Media celebrates Madiba Day  “There’s absolutely nothing that I can complain about. They gave us food for the kids, stationery, revamped the place and provided all the utensils we need on a daily basis. “I really do not know how to appreciate what we received because when I walk around in this area it is like a new place. We now have enough pots to cook and a new stove that cooks faster than the old one.  “The kids love their swings, toys, tables, chairs and all the other things we have received. We now have way more than what we ever imagined we could have,” she said. READ ALSO: BREAKING: Shots fired in Mataffin during land dispute