 MBOMBELA – “The network that increases your net worth” is aimed at helping young entrepreneurs to collaborate to uplift each other and their communities. DJ Sbu “We must change the mindset: you must interact with different industries,” explained local businesswoman and co-host, Tshepiso Phosa, in her introductions to the 80-odd hand-picked guests. Tshepiso Phosa DJ Sbu, an author, philanthropist, founder of Mofaya Energy Drinks, co-founder of Massiv Metro and an educator, explained that he founded Leadership 2020 to help other entrepreneurs avoid the pitfalls he himself faced, and had to learn from the hard way. ALSO READ: Pro-Life rescue founder arrested for alleged perjury “We started in 2001,” he said. “If I look back at things now, we could have done some things better. “You need to know how to manage your business and run it well. To do that you have to connect with people who know how and who can help you.” Mangaliso Nkosi and Nonhlanhla Mnisi Eulander Nanni Joseph Gbenle This is the aim: Get entrepreneurs in Mpumalanga together to benefit from one another – and make more money together. “You need knowledge, you can never run a successful business alone. We want to help people to get better by being introduced to people who can help them.”  Established local businessmen such as Dr Mathews Phosa and Oupa Pilane attended too, to show their support. Nicholas and Robyn Stawski Fun introductions were followed by lunch after which a panel consisting of, among others, DJ Sbu, Brenda Archdeacon and Mfundo Nyambi shared their experiences in business. Werner and Chantelle Swanepoel The aim is to host Sunday Circles in the province once a month. As one speaker noted, “Only serious people will care to come out on a Sunday”. Brenda Archdeacon Megan Palmer and Patrese Figueiredo (Small) A shoe drive for Mandela Month was also launched at the event to collect footwear for 400 children at Khulumani Primary School in KaBokweni. Brown school shoes can be dropped off at Harley-Davidson Nelspruit or Milviforce Puma N4 Filling Station by July 25. Enquiries: 083-326-8185. ALSO READ: One mother’s ‘private hell’ brings hope to another