Jelani Guesthouse in White River is family friendly, comfortable, homely and located on a beautiful plot approximately 1.5km from the city centre, where peace and tranquillity will enfold you and give you a warm farm feeling. Whether you are a family, couple or single, Jelani caters to your every need.  The Retief room boasts an authentic ox wagon that has been lovingly converted into a cosy 2 sleeper nook, with its own kitchen and bathroom. This room is ideal for a romantic getaway and often gets used as the honeymoon suite at the guesthouse.  The guesthouse offers a choice of 4 family rooms, named after the owners’ four grandchildren – Karlien, Amoné, Lizé and Dané. The spacious house is the perfect mix of old-world charm and modern comfort, with large dining area, full kitchen amenities and lounge/entertainment area. The decor is laid-back and relaxed with unique antique furniture and features like the built-in coal stove – perfect for braais, pizza evenings or ‘old-style’ baking and cooking. Shanlyn is perfect for the family, couple or single traveller looking for a bit of privacy. It is a small apartment next to the house with its own kitchen and bathroom. All the accommodation at Jelani Guesthouse includes safe parking, air conditioning, tea and coffee making facilities, laundry services and free wi-fi. Airport shuttle service and cleaning services are available on request.  If you’re looking for a completely unique venue for your wedding, baby shower, birthday bash or any event, Jelani Guesthouse is guaranteed to leave you and your guests with an experience they won’t forget. Sheralee Stoltz, who is the owner and operator at Jelani, is the absolute heart and soul behind everything that happens here. Her passion and flair shines through in every unique feature throughout the venue and you can rest assured that your event will be everything you hoped for and more.  For bookings and more information about Jelani Guest House, contact Sharelee telephonically on 082 451 8525 or via email at info@jelaniguesthouse.co.za. You won’t be disappointed!