 PILGRIM’S REST – Mass action, born out of the economic desperation of the local community which created some serious media attention, seemed to be the driving force behind the provincial government acting and fast tracking its process to resolve the rapid economic and physical decline of the once-thriving tourism destination of Pilgrim’s Rest. Three MECs, as well as their heads of departments, attended a crisis meeting at Pilgrim’s Rest Primary School in New Town late on Wednesday. This hastily scheduled meeting happened two days earlier than the initial deadline, which was set for today. Some of the irate community members of Pilgrim’s Rest at the meeting on Wednesday. Last Thursday the community blocked off the entrances to the heritage section of the village, demanding that tenders to guarantee the future economic well-being of the town be finalised. Little destruction took place but a busload of foreign tourists got caught up in the fracas. Mashego rushed to the scene. DPWRT is responsible for the management of the museum town of Pilgrim’s Rest. This once-thriving tourism attraction is a public asset, originally developed and managed by the museum services of the old Transvaal Provincial Administration before it was handed over to Mpumalanga. Some closed business premises, derelict heritage structures and the ruins of the caravan park which are evidence of the past years of government mismanagement of this once-thriving tourism destination. In 2012, 17 successful business operators were forced to reapply for their right to occupy premises and to trade. In 2013, the then-Public Protector, Thuli Madonsela, found that they had been evicted unlawfully and that the of awarding new leases to “previously disadvantaged” tenants had been irregular. However, in all the years since the tender process remained open, but stalled. This resulted in years of uncertainty with most operators leaving. This led to dwindling economic conditions for all. One example is the caravan and campsite, once one of the best in South Africa. Today it is in ruins due to the lack of expertise and proper management skills of the operator the tender was allocated to. Even with these visible signs of decline, the department remained reluctant to appoint tenders to operators offering proper expertise and finances to create economically viable businesses in town.  Interventions by the local tourism industry as well as the national minister of tourism, were ignored. This led to a major loss of jobs and a dwindling tourism trade, which rapidly spiralled into general poverty. Many of the heritage structures also became derelict due to them standing empty or not being maintained any more. The people want the status quo to be returned. They openly blame the MEC for the decline. They do not want any race preferences to influence the process and need the government to act fast.  The three MECs who attended the meeting on Wednesday evening were Mashego, Eric Kholwane, the MEC for finance, economic development and tourism, and MEC of sports and recreation Thandi Shongwe. Though not confirmed at the time of going to press, the formation of a cooperative bakery venture in Pilgrim’s Rest was promised to the people. At the meeting, better housing conditions were also demanded. This remained unresolved due to dolomite formations below the surface creating a danger of the land caving in, the people were told. The possibility of creating a new housing scheme 12 kilometres away at Graskop is regarded as more viable, according to unconfirmed reports. Some closed business premises, derelict heritage structures and the ruins of the caravan park which are evidence of the past years of government mismanagement of this once-thriving tourism destination. Earlier this week Mashego also reacted to other media enquiries. He said Pilgrim’s Rest’s infrastructure is very old and needs constant maintenance. Due to limited budget, the department can only attend to a few buildings in a financial year. During the current financial year the department will further renovate some of the properties in the town. The department’s in-house maintenance team is also assisting in doing the day-to-day maintenance in the town.  Further details on future plans for Pilgrim’s Rest will be unveiled after the completion of the procurement processes and awards to new tenants.