 “I find it essential that serious bee-keepers go for training in order to get the foundations of their knowledge right. Googling, a common way of learning in this instance, could be misleading as most information available on the Internet is about the European honey bee (Apis mellifera), of which our African honey bee (Apis mellifera scutellata) is a subspecies, whose characteristics are quite different from their European counterparts,” said Inge Lotter, chairman of the association. She explains that in the Lowveld we are moving more and more towards a system of monoculture, with macadamia trees becoming the most planted tree crop in the area. “Unfortunately, due to the chemical application program that is used on this crop, it is not a very healthy place for bees to live all year. This necessitates bee-keepers to move their bees away after the macadamia flowering period, but where? Eucalyptus trees have traditionally been the most reliable bee forage in the area,” Lotter said. She added that it is very difficult to get permission to place their hives in eucalyptus plantations, and that even if you have a permit, between the macadamia season and when the eucalyptus is in bloom, there is still a four-month period of very few plants providing the necessities. What else flowers in significant numbers to keep our bees safe and fed? “Unfortunately, due to these issues, many of the Lowveld bee swarms abscond every year, leaving the bee-keepers with the task of having to trap a significant portion of their swarms every year. This increases transport and maintenance costs as hives need to be collected, cleaned, prepared and placed in specific areas to trap new swarms again.” This is, however, not the only problem local bee-keepers have to face. Further issues such as ants, honey badgers and theft are also of huge concern. Also read: Sugar-cane harvesting still recovering from the drought “Ants eat both the honey and bee larva, often causing the swarm to abscond if the attack is too severe. Keeping your site ant-free is, therefore, extremely important. Having your hives placed on high frames and/or securely tied down in order that honey badgers cannot destroy them is also something each bee-keeper has to do.Losses from these beautiful creatures can be significant if not prepared for.” Keeping all of this in mind, Lotter states that losses due to theft and vandalism are by far the most difficult and expensive problem facing bee-keepers. “Keeping people out is much more difficult and expensive than keeping animals out. Honey crops from whole apiary sites are often lost due to theft.” “Depending on the skill and equipment used by the thieves, the level of loss varies between losing your honey to having your hives and frames broken and destroyed or even stolen.” Another problem is the infiltration of the Cape honey bee. Once discovered, the apiary site needs to be quarantined and the infected swarm destroyed. In addition, the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF) needs to be notified of all outbreaks.
“The whole of the summer rainfall area, including the Lowveld, has been plagued by the parasitic Cape honey bee (Apis mellifera capensis) that was inadvertently introduced to the region in the 1980s. “This bee has the ability to clone herself, thereby laying viable female eggs without mating. Her pheromones are much stronger than that of the African bee, thereby sometimes ousting the existing queen by appearing more queenlike to the workers than their true queen due to her strong pheromones. Also read: Twelve arrested for alleged rhino poaching “Once this happens, the colony collapses, as she cannot take over the role of the queen to maintain the swarm population. “A queen can lay thousands of fertilised eggs in her lifetime to replace her colony’s worker bees, where a Capensis bee only lays at maximum a few hundred eggs. “Her offspring has the same ability to infect other African honey bee swarms, thereby spreading the problem. “Bee-keepers need to inspect their colonies regularly in order to curb the spread of this pest,” Lotter explains. In spite of all the problems that beekeepers face, Lotter is keeping positive and is still excited about what the bee-keeping world has to offer. Aspiring bee-keepers can contact Lotter on 082-821-5011 or inge.lotter@gmail.com for enquiries on the bee-keeper courses or to join the association.