 The word “sedan”, in the historical sense, referred to an enclosed chair for conveying one person, carried between horizontal poles by two porters. In more modern times, sedan has come to refer to a “three-box” passenger vehicle with a boot. The Toyota Corolla is synonymous with the term “compact sedan”. Launched in 1966, the Corolla nameplate has been affixed to 11 generations of Toyota vehicles. Many milestones have been achieved across a span of 52 years, including the world’s best-selling vehicle nameplate, and exceeding 45 million units sold globally in 2017 – making the esteemed Corolla one of the world’s best-selling vehicles in history. Also read: A heavyweight racer with vroom in his retirement Visually, the Prestige+ ups the ante with the adoption of a bi-tone colour scheme, with the roof finished in elegant gloss black, aka “Attitude Black”. The gloss black treatment is further applied to both upper and lower radiator grilles. The black lower grille extends across the apron of the vehicle, incorporating standard fog lamps and terminating in vertical “blades” at the bumper’s edge which also feature gloss black finishing. In celebration of Corolla’s rich history both globally and in South Africa, Toyota South Africa has added some flair to the already stylish Corolla in the form of a special edition model – dubbed Prestige+ (Prestige Plus). The power-adjustable side mirrors inherit the same treatment, and complement the rest of the ebony-themed styling package. An elegant Prestige+ insignia is affixed to the rear boot lid, signifying the model’s credentials. The interior space is also elevated with the change to a leather-and-fabric combination for the seats and Prestige+ branded floor mats. A Piano Black effect has been applied to the door trim accents (silver in the normal Corolla models) to complete the package and visually tie in with the exterior elements. Also read: Rocking time for Womza riders at Manna track Underpinning the Prestige+ model is the familiar 1,6-litre four-cylinder power plant utilised in the Corolla range. The engine produces 90kW and 154Nm, and buyers can opt to either couple it to a six-speed manual or Multidrive continuously-variable transmission. A key feature of the Prestige+ model is the addition of ultra-stylish 17″ alloy wheels. The wheel and tyre package not only creates a strong visual statement, but also adds to the driving experience. Shod with 215-45-R17 tyres, the wheels incorporate a bi-tone, bi-textured design with directional spokes, creating a sense of forward motion. The Corolla Prestige+ is supported by a three year/100 000km warranty and five year/90 000km service plan. Pricing starts at R318 500. Also read: Fuel increase: Why Lowvelders pay more than the rest of SA