 MBOMBELA – The minister of transport, Dr Blade Nzimande, appealed to all motorists to be circumspect when using the South African roads during the long weekend. The past weekend was a busy one in the Lowveld, and traffic volumes to Gauteng are expected to peak today. Nzimande shared his heartfelt condolences to the families who had lost their loved ones. The truck between Bourke’s Luck and Graskop. “I wish all those who are recuperating in hospitals and at home a speedy recovery,” he said in a statement. The AA said statistics show the situation on the country’s roads is worsening, despite numerous safety campaigns by government and non-governmental organisations. Also read: Reckless heavy-vehicle drivers face the heat According to the statistics, 14 050 people died in accidents on South African roads in 2017. This is marginally lower than the 14 071 people who died in road crashes in 2016, but still higher than any year from 2008 to 2015. “Seen against the backdrop of the fatality statistics over the past 10 years (from 2008), these numbers prove that current road-safety initiatives are simply not working. Since then, almost 135 000 people have died in road crashes in South Africa.  This is a shocking number which, without urgent intervention, genuine commitment from all role players, and a complete change in the attitude of all road users, will never significantly decrease,” said the AA. However, crashes on the Lowveld’s roads are not limited to holiday weekends. Trucks are generally wreaking havoc.  Also read: Reckless driving continues in the Lowveld An ore truck collided with a vehicle last Saturday on Long Tom Pass. The driver of the vehicle was killed. “Although the driver of the vehicle was at fault, truck drivers drive horribly on the pass and they are an absolute hazard on the road,” said Lisa Sheard, executive director of Kruger Lowveld Tourism, who uses the pass every day. She confirmed that another truck went off the road yesterday while driving from Lydenburg toward Mbombela five kilometres before the Mbombela turn-off. The truck between Bourke’s Luck and Graskop. Another case of reckless truck driving was also reported by a Lowvelder reader this week. The truck was swerving across lanes on the road between Graskop and Bourke’s Luck. The reader, who does not want to be identified due to personal reasons, said the driver was driving more than 100 kilometres per hour. This posed danger for others on the road. Also read: Reckless drivers contribute to festive season death tolls Mpumalanga Community Safety, Security and Liaison MEC Pat Ngomane is gravely concerned about number of fatalities with the long weekend and he has again urged for attitudinal changes by motorists.