 BUSHBUCKRIDGE – Three police officers were arrested for allegedly stealing money from the scene of a CIT heist last Thursday. A G4S armoured vehicle was heading towards Bushbuckridge from Thulamahashe when it was ambushed by a group of armed men travelling in two bakkies. According to provincial police spokesman Brig Leonard Hlathi, the attackers shot at the vehicle and forced it to stop. The guards were disarmed and forced out of the vehicle. The suspects then blasted the safe open and fled the scene with an undisclosed amount of cash. Hlathi said SAPS officers were alleged to have taken some of the money left behind on the scene. He said police were alerted of the heist and the three accused police members, driving with five colleagues in a police Volkswagen Crafter, were the first ones to arrive at the scene. “When other SAPS members arrived, they were informed by community members that they had seen some police officers, who were travelling in the Crafter which had left a few minutes earlier, taking money that was scattered around.” Const Thembiso Mathebula (52), WO Citizen Mabuso (31) and a reserve Const Kaizen Mdluli (38) were arrested the same day. They were called while travelling at Dwarsloop and ordered to stop. When their colleagues arrived, they searched them and they were allegedly found in possession of notes suspected to have been taken on the scene. They appeared in the Mhlala Magistrate’s Court on Friday on charges of theft and defeating the ends of justice. All three received R2 000 bail each. The matter was postponed until June 28 for further investigation. The provincial commissioner of Mpumalanga, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma, applauded the law-abiding citizens who gave the information that led to the arrest of the three officials. “The duty of the police at a crime scene is to safeguard it, protect property and all other exhibits lying around, but not to tamper and take anything from it. I believe that the arrest of these officers will serve as a deterrent to other members who might be tempted to cross the line at any time,” said Zuma. The Federation of Unions of South Africa (Fedusa) stated it was deeply concerned about the increasing number of cash-in-transit robberies in the country, that in many cases were accompanied by fatalities or serious injuries to security guards or the police, and endangered members of the public who were caught in the cross-fire. Many of the security guards who face death and serious injury in the line of duty on a daily basis are members of the Motor Transport Workers Union (MTWU), an affiliate of Fedusa. Fedusa general secretary Dennis George said he was concerned about the pattern that seemed to be emerging from the heists, namely the apparent inability of the police to gather crime intelligence ahead of the incidents that would then enable them to anticipate and pre-empt them. “This is in addition to police’s failure to make arrests or let alone secure convictions of cash-in-transit heist suspects.” Anyone with information that may assist the SAPS in their investigation is urged to contact Lt Col Nomsa Mkhwanazi on 082-469-1250 or the SAPS Crime Stop number, 086-00-10111.