 MBOMBELA – Leon Kluge’s (38), the “rebel gardener”, career is blossoming. The former Hoërskool Nelspruit pupil is no stranger to international awards, nor gold medals at this particularly renowned show. He was a part of the teams which won three gold medals at the show between 2010 and 2013. This year was the first time he led the team, something he will be doing for the next five years. His concept was inspired by showing the world the rarely-seen wild flora of South Africa (including that of the Lowveld) and combining this with art depicting the area’s culture. This earned them a gold in the mixed category, which combines flower arranging and gardening. Most of the flowers were flown in from South Africa. It was not without its challenges. “We have to harvest the flowers a day or two before they are shipped, to keep them as fresh as possible. It rained just before we were to cut some proteas, and we couldn’t, so we didn’t have all the protea types we wanted at the show,” he told Lowvelder by phone this week. There was also an issue with the plants’ inspection process in the UK. “We had already unpacked them when they let us know there had been an error on the system, and we had to return them all to repeat the process. We lost a few plants as a result.” But Kluge and team were not deterred and put on a winning show. As he told the South African Landscapers Institute at the show, “We have a wonderful team. We turned the concept on its head. We added more cultural aspects to our landscapes. We are a happy bunch and I wanted to display that too.”  Lowvelder has reported on this talented landscape architect’s work and achievements numerous times. ALSO SEE: Lowveld seeds sprout wonderland win Some of his notable achievements include breathtaking displays at the Cape Town Flower Show and Singapore Garden Festival. In 2013 he also took top honours with a gold in the home-garden category at the Gardening World Cup in Nagasaki, Japan. Representing Africa he also won the prestigious best on show award.  Leon Kluge with the corpse flower which bloomed at Afri Orchids earlier this year. READ MORE: Blooming corpse flower attracts attention Kluge also won gold for the best outdoor lighting display at that year’s Singapore Garden Festival. It comes as no surprise that he is considered as one of the world’s best.