 As a way of keeping his promise to learn about the plight of ordinary people, Cyril Ramaphosa went about his popular walk in town. It was held on Saturday and it was his opportunity to interact with the public. Furthermore, as the chancellor of the University of Mpumalanga, he was here to cap students during a graduation ceremony later that day. Before heading there he was seen in and around town.  Hundreds of people took part; Ramaphosa was accompanied by Premier Refilwe Mtshweni, Mbombela mayor Sibusiso Mathonsi, acting chairman Mandla Ndlovu and several other ANC officials. The walk started at the local library and it ended at the municipal complex. Before leaving he addressed the crowd. He said despite the many challenges the country faces, nobody should lose hope.
“Working together is the most important solution and best way to overcome all challenges,” he said. Ramaphosa urged the younger generation to study and work hard to reach their goals, referring to the availability of a university in the region. He also complimented Mpumalanga and Mbombela for the stability the local residents experience.
He was seen taking pictures with locals at Southern Sun Emnotweni.  He then proceeded to the event of the day.
It was a proud moment for parents when their children were capped by the president of the country. Some were ululating and others praising as their child was called up the stage. Ramaphosa said the occasion attests to the shared commitment of ensuring that every young South African, regardless of where they come from or the circumstances in which they live, should be able to realise their full potential. He said the university was established to correct a grave imbalance; to make a university education accessible, affordable and relevant to the people. “This university is founded on the conviction that education is the most effective instrument to improve the lives of our people and develop our communities.  “It is one of our major tasks as a democratic South Africa to build schools, universities that become centres of excellence and enlightenment. We must build institutions that equip students with the skills and capabilities to thrive in a modern economy and the consciousness to contribute to a better society,”
Ramaphosa explained.