Digital marketing, over any other form of marketing, has grown in recent years and will continue to do so. Any forward-thinking company has a digital strategy that they will be working on, so we thought that we would give you the info on some of the trends that you can expect in 2018. Video marketing will become increasingly important With social media algorithms updated to favour video content, there is no doubt that video will become a major player in any strategy. Some people can be a bit wary of this as they think that it will incur extra production costs, but there is free software that you can use that will do that for you. You can make videos with this software, and also take advantage of templates, etc., depending on the plan that you decide to use. By using video content, you are far more likely to connect and engage with your audience. Mobile marketing will be king The increase in users browsing the internet and social channels on their mobile phones has resulted in a massive focus on mobile users. This means that it has never been more essential to make sure that your website is mobile-friendly. If it doesn’t look user-friendly on a handheld device, then the chances are that the consumer will go elsewhere. When searching for your company on Google, usually the first thing that the user will see will be your site. It will leave a poor first impression if it doesn’t load as it should. Using social media tools Social media is progressing rapidly, and social media channels are consistently launching new tools to make your brand heard. There are features such as Facebook Live that you can use to broadcast your message or host prize draws to generate interest. Personalisation will also be incredibly important in 2018 – so using your social media channels to show who you are and to connect with your audience will be crucial in making your marketing campaigns a success. You can also use your social media tools to get user feedback. You can conduct polls on what they think of your products and services and act on it. Customer reviews and feedback Reviews on third-party sites are essential to search engine rankings and trust for prospective clients. Positive reviews on Google My Business will have a positive effect on search engine results pages (SERPs) and give users a good first impression. Users may browse other sites such as Trustpilot to get an idea of what experiences other customers have had with you. It’s important that this content is monitored, as if you do happen to get a negative review, you want people to know that you responded to it in a timely fashion.