 MBOMBELA – On offer is a lively music production, a book talk, a touching art nouveau film, as well as an art exhibition. Majozi & the Legogote Band from the Casterbridge Music Development Academy will set the pace on Friday June 29 at 19:00 at The Barnyard Theatre.  In addition to Majozi’s own songs, you’ll be taken on a journey through the history of South African music highlighting Johnny Clegg, Brenda Fassie, Hugh Masekela, Miriam Makeba and many more. Tickets are available through Computicket and cost R142.  Ruda Landman is the guest of Lowvelder‘s Pen in my Hand at 11:00 on Saturday June 30, where she will talk about her latest book, Tell Me Your Story, in which she interviewed prominent South Africans about their life choices and how change has affected them.  Some of the people who shared their experiences include John Kani, Ferial Haffajee, Katlego Maboe, Gugu Zulu and Pieter-Dirk Uys. The cost to attend is R52 and tickets are available through Computicket. Read more about the festival’s book offering on page 20.  “Mosterd na die Maal” is a group exhibition at the White River Gallery. It already opens on June 13, and the closing event will be on June 30 at 12:00. This exhibition explores the nuances of mealtimes, the sharing of meals, and the emotions that we attach to these occasions. Family rituals, the act of saying grace and human postures around meals are some of the themes explored by the artists.  Participating artists are Eric Eatwell, Rene Eloff, Michael Heyns, Mariana Zwaan, Laurel Holmes, James de Villiers, Gerrie van Tonder, Erica Schoeman and Griet van der Meulen. Hennie Fisher, the closing speaker at the event, has completed his doctoral research in the development of a food literacy measuring instrument for South Africa.  Oscar-nominated film Loving Vincent is the world’s first fully oil-painted animation feature film. A young man comes to the last hometown of painter Vincent van Gogh to deliver the troubled artist’s final letter and ends up investigating his final days. Each of the film’s 65 000 frames is an oil painting on canvas, using the same technique as Van Gogh, created by a team of 125 painters.  To book for this film at Casterbridge Cinema at 14:00 on Saturday June 30, call 073 091 3293 or send an email to casterbridgecinema@zannas.co.za. To view the festival programme visit innibos.co.za and buy tickets at Computicket.