 MBOMBELA -“In the past year we have had reports of rabies but none of them were identified as positive. The chance of a rabies epidemic in any area is possible, it all depends on how the community reacts,” said Celia Sutton, member of the Nelspruit SPCA management team. “One of the most important vaccinations to give your dog would be what they call a five in one. It protects them against canine distemper, canine parvo, adenovirus type one and two, parainfluenza virus as well as rabies. Similarly in cats, the combination vaccine protects them against feline viral rhinotrachius, feline calcvirus, feline panleukopaenia and rabies,” Sutton explained. READ ALSO: Community take hands to help SPCA Nelspruit “Rabies is a fatal disease. That is why vaccinations are so important.” According to the Animal Diseases Act it is the responsibility of an owner to protect their dogs from diseases and to ensure that the diseases do not spread. “If a dog is not vaccinated and he bites a person on the street then this person would need to be treated with rabies immunoglobulin that is very painful and expensive. Rabies can not be cured and is 100% fatal. If the dog was vaccinated beforehand, the victim might only need treatment for the wounds,” said Dr Christo Nortje from Van Wyk Street Animal Hospital. READ ALSO: Support the Nelspruit SPCA “If you buy a dog it is important to make sure that it has a vaccination history book with the initials B.VSc on as it proves that a vet has given the vaccinations. Breeders try to save money and vaccinate dogs themselves but there is no proof that they did it correctly.” According to Nortje, rabies vaccination with an examination of your dog will cost you under R500. “Rabies vaccination need to be done on a dog at 12 weeks and again at 16 weeks. From there you need to do it once a year. “The State Veterinary Department has annual rabies runs in different communities and everyone is encouraged to have their pets vaccinated. If people don’t know that they need to vaccinate their animals, the chances of an epidemic will only increase,” Sutton concluded. READ ALSO: Nelspruit SPCA: Update on food levels