On June 1st, 2018, Tetra Pak the world’s leading food processing and packaging solutions company will join the rest of the world in celebrating the 18th annual World Milk Day. Tetra Pak promotes the consumption of safe packaged milk all over the world. By developing and implementing awareness campaigns publicizing the nutritional value of milk. Along with listing the benefits of consuming safe packed milk and the hazards of consuming loose milk. In 2001, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) selected June 1st as World Milk Day, which celebrates the important contributions of the dairy sector to sustainability, economic development, livelihoods and nutrition. With each passing year, the number of countries participating in World Milk Day has increased, to reflect ever growing interest in adopting healthier lifestyles. “Aligned with our global vision of “Protect What’s Good”, Tetra Pak South Africa has many initiatives to raise awareness on the benefits of consuming safe packaged milk versus the dangers of consuming loose untreated milk.The company recently launched a digital competition on its Facebook page to encourage drinking milk and raise awareness about “World Milk Day”. Tetra Pak focuses on highlighting the importance of consuming safe packed milk, as opposed to loose or untreated milk. By nature, milk is a sensitive product. It is highly vulnerable to contamination if it is not handled properly during collection and transportation. More information: It is worth noting that, packed milk is tested before reception at the customer factories and only good quality milk is accepted. The milk is then exposed to the UHT process which eliminates bacteria and the six-layered carton keeps out sun, light, and air which makes UHT milk safe. The Ultra High Treatment (UHT) process, exposes milk to extremely-high temperatures, at 135°C for 3-4 seconds, and is then immediately cooled. This process kills any bacteria whilst keeping the milk’s natural nutrients. Afterwards the milk is safely packed in Tetra Pak’s six-layer package without the need to add any additives or preservatives. Milk contains 18 of the 22 nutrients necessary for a daily intake. It is rich in essential nutrients such as Vitamin A, D and B12, as well as minerals such as; potassium, calcium, phosphorus, zinc, magnesium and protein. Studies have shown that a low intake of milk or milk related products increases the risk of osteoporosis, resulting in calcium deficiency, obesity and tooth decay. Loose milk is sold untreated and unpacked. It is usually collected in unsterilized containers without refrigeration and sold in a jar or plastic bag. It exposed to pollution, sun, and all types of bacteria, and in some cases, unhealthy additives are added it to prolong its life. Boiling the milk at home does not kill all the bacteria or remove the additives. ABOUT TETRA PAK Tetra Pak is the world’s leading food processing and packaging solutions company. Working closely with our customers and suppliers, we provide safe, innovative and environmentally sound products that each day meet the needs of hundreds of millions of people in more than 170 countries around the world. With more than 23,000 employees based in over 80 countries, we believe in responsible industry leadership and a sustainable approach to business.  Our motto, “PROTECTS WHAT’S GOOD™,” reflects our vision to make food safe and available, everywhere. More information about Tetra Pak is available at www.tetrapak.com