 It was yet another memorable moment for Mpumalanga and Maputo when the premier, Refilwe Mtshweni, signed a memorandum of understanding with the governor of Maputo province, Raimundo Maico Doimba, on Friday. The previous memorandum was signed in 2008 and expired more than a year ago. Agriculture was identified as a key area of the economy which could create much-needed job opportunities in primary production and agro-processing for both provinces.  Other areas of cooperation include trade and industry development, tourism development, infrastructure and transport logistics, crime prevention, peace and security, local government, sports, and arts and culture. Joint technical committees have identified projects that could be given priority and will ensure that a programme of action in line with the identified areas is finalised quickly for implementation. “Mozambique has abundant agricultural land that belongs to the state, which could be made available to Mpumalanga farmers through a medium- to long-term lease agreement,” the Office of the Premier said in a statement. “The available land presents an opportunity to provincial farmers working in partnership with Maputo ones to farm in Mozambique, and the market is readily available. Products from Mozambique could be supplied to the Mpumalanga International Fresh Produce Market for export and some to the local market. “Plans are at an advanced stage to set up a special economic zone (SEZ) in Nkomazi to process agricultural produce, creating more investment and job opportunities.  “The SEZ is to be constructed a few kilometres from Ressano Garcia Border Post. Mpumalanga has signed off on agreements with a number of countries in the Gulf region whose economies are dependent on large-scale imports for their food security.” Trade and industry development is another important area of cooperation for business to forge cooperation, through the establishment of joint business forums.  “The joint technical committees also identified a need for a freedom route linking the Waterval Boven (Mgwenya) Train Disaster Site, Mbuzini Memorial Site and Matola Raid Interpretation Centre to enhance understanding of the historical relationship between South Africa and Mozambique. “The Triland Brand Initiative tourism route demonstrates progress made in tourism in terms of connecting Mozambique, Mpumalanga and Swaziland. The initiative is driven by the tourism authorities of both provinces meant to enhance cooperation on tourism products,” said Mtshweni.