Special Vehicle Operations’ Jaguar designers, led by director of design Ian Callum and its bespoke vehicle personalisation team, have created a Graphic Pack which adds a compelling dose of visual muscle to the exhilarating all-wheel drive F-TYPE SVR. Accentuating the F-TYPE SVR’s lift and drag-reducing aerodynamics package of front bumper and splitter, flat underfloor, carbon-fibre active rear wing and rear venturi are a contrast grille surround, mirror caps and aero winglets. Bonnet and sill decals with “575” graphics signify the 5,0-litre supercharged V8’s outstanding 575-horsepower (423kW) output, with carbon bonnet louvres and side ingots reinforcing the high-performance theme.  The F-TYPE SVR Graphic Pack is available in six unique colours. All feature lightweight 20” forged wheels and colour-matched brake calipers (red or black). Carbon Ceramic Matrix brakes are available as an option, but feature yellow calipers. Inside, the Graphic Pack adds illuminated “575” tread plates and a commissioning plaque that’s only fitted to cars specified with the Graphic Pack. Callum said, “The F-TYPE SVR is one of the most dynamic, dramatic and fastest road cars ever created by Jaguar. The Graphic Pack perfectly complements its sporting character with a touch of heritage.”  Developed by Jaguar’s Special Vehicle Operations division, the F-TYPE SVR is designed to be the fastest and most powerful F-Type while remaining usable day-to-day. The 322km/h all-weather supercar will accelerate from 0-100km/h in just 3,7 seconds, yet rewards drivers with surefooted handling, crisp steering and powerful braking. The F-TYPE SVR’s chassis features uprated dampers and anti-roll bars, stiffer rear suspension knuckles, and wider tyres – 265/35 R20 and 305/30 R20 – giving it a distinctive character with finely honed responses. The 423kW supercharged V8 emits a purposeful and harder-edged sound through a lightweight titanium and Inconel exhaust system.  Visualise all the the above specifications, listen to the exhaust note when you watch the race between the Jaguar SVR and the helicopter at the Kishugu Lowveld Air Show and imagine being at the steering wheel of this all powerful and extremely dynamic package. A driver’s car and adrenaline booster like no other… imagine… imagine! How long before you own one?  Pricing for the Jaguar F-TYPE SVR begins at R2 377 400.. All new Jaguar cars come with the five-year Jaguar care plan: a five-year/100 000km service plan, a five-year/100 000km maintenance plan and a five-year/100 000km warranty, as standard. For more info, visit Jaguar Online.