 To celebrate the launch of The Rest Nature Estate’s new phase 2b and the release of additional 50 stands for sale, a Mexican-themed party was held on Thursday night at The Rest’s sales centre. Giant sombreros, ponchos and Mexican skirts were the order of the day. The guests dressed up according to the theme and enjoyed traditional food and drinks. ALSO READ:The Rest Nature Estate wins international awards The venue was also decorated in a Mexican theme. On arrival the guests were given a welcome drink. Everyone had a three-course Mexican meal to enjoy and drinks were available throughout the night, with a bar offering complimentary drinks. Jacques Viljoen, Anzel van Dyk, Belinda and Andries Erasmus.  This estate is well on its way to achieving the objective of being the best and safest residential estate in the Lowveld. It was recently awarded a five-star grading and was voted the Best Residential Development in South Africa 2017/18 in the International Africa & Arabia Property Awards. It also won accolades for the best development marketing award in South Africa. The estate is currently in phase two of a four-phase development, with 600 serviced stands out of a total of 1 200 currently released for sale. ALSO READ:The Rest Nature Estate awards creative talent at Curro Nelspruit School This event was hosted for residents, owners and prospective owners. Seventy per cent of stands purchased have been by existing owners or through contacts introduced by them. By releasing the remaining 50 stands in phase 2b, this means all serviced stands are now on sale and consideration is already being given to the servicing of phase 3.  The new stands are unbelievable, with the best views across the whole estate out over Mbombela towards White River, ranging in size from 800m² for R650 000, up to 2 500m² for in excess of R2 million. A range of completed villas has also recently been released onto the market on smaller freehold stands of 500m². There are 30 villas currently under construction, with another 20 that will be completed by mid-2019.
Their prices range from  R1,9 million for 200 m2, up to  230 m2 for R3 million.
It was a well-planned event. Everything was going as it would in Mexico.  The guests were entertained by Monkey Queen and White Chocolate. They all looked happy to be there and joined in the entertainment and had a ball while mingling. The sales centre is open seven days a week, from 09:00 to 17:00.