 Gone are the days of going door-to-door with CV in-hand looking for employment. Online is now the primary space to search for jobs and to advertise yourself. There are 55 000 live jobs to choose from on Gumtree.co.za alone and the site offers the chance to post a free Job Seeker ad. Claire Cobbledick, Head of Core Business for Gumtree SA, said that the employment environment is very competitive so it is vital to list an ad that stands out from the rest and showcases all the necessary information your potential employer might need. She offers the following simple steps to creating a really effective Job Seeker ad. 1. Take an appropriate photo Avoid uploading a casual image of yourself, a selfie will not do. If you don’t have an appropriate picture, then get one taken standing against a solid-coloured wall, preferably white, and wearing suitable clothing. A selfie will definitely not do.  2. Create a strong title The title is the first thing that potential employers will see when browsing through the thousands of ads on the site. Make sure it is catchy and informative so that you can grab their attention and set yourself apart from the rest. 3. Pay attention to detail When completing your profile, include all relevant information – location, full name, a contact number and an email address. Treat the description section as a cover letter – write a short motivation as to why someone should employ you. Bilingual in three languages? Are you sure about that? 4. Respond quickly From the moment you post your ad, make sure to keep on high alert. A swift response back to potential employers demonstrates your enthusiasm and attention to detail, a slow one could mean you miss the chance. 5. Clean up your social profiles Before potential employers respond they might check you out on social media. Make sure your privacy settings are in place on every platform that you use and that anything accessible publicly represents you in a good light. Don’t be like this guy. 6. Have a good CV Make sure it is clear, relevant and updated, has a good layout and that your spelling and grammar is correct . Place your contact information in the header so that it’s easy for the employer to access. A CV and cover letter template can be found here: https://www.gumtree.co.za/pages/jobtips/applying/