 The City of Mbombela Local Municipality (CMLM) is investigating an incident in which people claimed a section of municipal ground next to the KaNyamazane Road. It is unclear which community they were from. On Monday morning they were seen dividing land among themselves, using a tape. CMLM spokesman Joseph Ngala said as soon as they heard about the land grab they went to the site with the police. “The area was allocated for the Tekwane Urban Hub. The project has been included in the 2018/19 financial year. “On our arrival we found people busy allocating land and we asked them who gave them permission. They told us they just decided to share it,” stated Ngala. “Although we doubt that is the whole truth, we suspect they could be protecting the person’s identity.
“We have plans for that site and it will help grow the economy of Tekwane South. We plan to build a hub that will bring businesses and create jobs,” the spokesman explained. ALSO READ:Municipality investigates land grab Ngala said they do not support land invasion because soon the people will be demanding service delivery. “We do not want the situation that occurred at Matsefani and Msholozi to repeat. Community members who qualify know they have to go to their councillors to get their stands. When people allocate an area for themselves without permission they end up building their houses on sewage lines or areas which are planned for other projects,” he stated. A few years ago people invaded land which belongs to the National Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport. ALSO READ:Mataffin land saga: alleged illegal land sellers in court again The area is now known as Msholozi. Ever since the residents invaded the area they have embarked on protest actions demanding service delivery.
They recently protested and closed the R40 demanding a clinic, and primary and secondary school to be built in the area. CMLM is in a process of providing electricity for the community. “As much as we do not approve of land invasions or land grabs, as the government it is our responsibility to provide service. Whether the area is informal or formal we need to do our duties. “Looking at Msholozi, for example, we have about two people who died due to illegal connections, so if we do not provide electricity they will connect illegally,” said Ngala. On Tuesday morning the community members who were allocating land were not there, but the tape used to allocate land was erected. “The SAPS are monitoring the area to make sure that they do not return and continue invading land,” Ngala said.