 Part 1: KNP under threat from Moz crime syndicates MBOMBELA- The rhino was part of a viable breeding herd brought into Mozambique to restore the extinct species back into the neighbouring country. According to Sandy McDonald, second-generation owner of Sàbiè Game Park (SGP), the Mozambican president is very aware of the problems that they face in the area. The poachers hacked the rhino’s carcass with axes so that hyenas and lions could devour the animal quicker in an effort to conceal their heinous deed. “On his Saturday visit to the town he certainly did not mince his words when addressing the rally that was attended en masse. His message was clearly that the plundering of state assets, visibly wildlife, must stop and that these criminal actions must not stand in the way of development of the area and particularly the development of the core conservation areas,” he told Lowvelder.  “Paradoxically this rhino was shot on the same day that the president visited Sàbiè Town and was discovered on Tuesday,” he added.  The poachers axed the ear with the tracking device off and tried to conceal it nearby, but the game wardens found it as they scoured the area for clues. In his speech, Nyusi told the meeting that most of the profit from poaching does not go to the poachers themselves, but to organised-crime networks. The Smashed up tracking device of the slain rhino bull. McDonald said a new administrator, who has a reputation of being able to get a handle on these types of situations, has been placed in Moamba. He added that the head of law enforcement of wildlife crime in Mozambique, Dr Carlos Lopes Pereira, “is a true warrior and tirelessly fights the scourge of rhino and elephant poaching and is available to us 24/7”. In happier times when the tracking device was attached to the slain rhino bull’s ear. Mozambique has in a very short space of time changed its wildlife laws and the new Conservation Areas Act is a sound document and has been well received in the international arena. McDonald believes that the NGOs supporting anti-poaching and rhino/elephant conservation have to do more to lobby governments internationally, to give support to the Mozambique authorities’ conservation efforts. They need equipment and logistical support, some of which they are getting, but critically they need intelligence support in monitoring communications and money movements related to the main actors involved. The hacked off ear found hidden in the bush. “This applies to SA also. If one’s neighbour’s house is on fire you’d best help him put it out before yours catches fire
as well,” said McDonald. Part 3: Where does the blood money trail end? Why a court’s judgment may not make sense to the public 