 MBOMBELA – As of July 1, the municipality will be responsible for managing and maintaining bulk water supply to its residents, unless a new service provider is appointed before that date. The municipal council had a special council meeting on Monday afternoon, in which it was decided that Rand Water will no longer supply bulk water in the municipal area. This decision had to be made before May 1, as the contract would have come to an end on Tuesday. Instead, council decided to postpone the handover to allow for a smooth transfer of operations, DA caucus leader in the council, Steve Schormann, said. READ MORE: Bulk water supply contract to be terminated “The letter of termination was accepted by the City, and the process of the employee contracts and asset verification can now go forward,” he said. “A section 72 investigation will now take place to appoint a new contractor. The provincial government will get involved to ensure that there is no lingering involvement of Rand Water in the business of water provision in the City of Mbombela.” The CMLM will manage the existing water infrastructure to provide water to the municipal area – with the exception of Mbombela (formerly Nelspruit) and Matsulu area, whose water is supplied and managed by Sembcorp Silulumanzi. In response to a question by Schormann during last Thursday’s other special council sitting, Mayor Cllr Sibubiso Mathonsi said SARS owed the city R70 million in outstanding VAT payments. This is almost the exact amount Rand Water claims the municipality owes it. Lowvelder reported in April that the City owed Rand Water R68,6 million and that its current account was in arrears to the tune of R2,5 million. “The outstanding debt and the escalating costs of maintenance and operations services provided to the City of Mbombela undermine Rand Water’s ability to provide a sustainable service,” the latter said in a statement. CMLM spokesman Joseph Ngala explained at the time that their two-year contract with the service provider had lapsed. The termination would initially have come into effect at the end of December 2017, but CMLM requested an extension to allow for a smooth transition. Ngala added that a suitable payment plan had been established and accepted by the Rand Water. Schormann said that the DA as the official opposition welcomed the termination of the contract. “It was a bad contract. It was too short-term to give Rand Water any incentives to make investments in infrastructure. Yet they accepted the terms. READ MORE: Rand Water takes over bulk water projects “We would like all the people of the City of Mbombela to have the quality of service as provided in the Nelspruit area.” SARS said it was not permitted to provide details, as the relationship between SARS and all taxpayers is confidential. A spokesman, Janine Unathi Mqulwana said it must be noted that SARS has a stringent process for authorising legitimate refunds. “Legitimate refunds are released within 72 hours, once all requirements of the process are met.  It is not in the interest of SARS to withhold refunds unnecessarily.  SARS will liaise directly with the taxpayer, the City of Mbombela Local Municipality.” Neither Rand Water nor CMLM responded to the newspaper’s request for comment at the time of going to press.