 The “superb dedication” of the newly appointed acting director-general Mathews Mohlasedi has landed him the challenge of leading the Mpumalanga government’s administration. Premier Refilwe Mtshweni appointed him last week. Her spokesman, Zibonele Mncwango, said Mohlasedi had the required qualifications, knowledge and skills to effectively see to the responsibilities he has been given. He noted that under Mohlasedi’s leadership, the Department of Public Works, Roads and Transport received eight consecutive unqualified audit opinions from the auditor-general. “His personal traits, characteristics, superior dedication to his work, undying commitment to the province, outstanding contribution and performance are among the factors which might have been considered by the premier for his appointment.” ALSO READ:UPDATE: Mpumalanga to redo state of the province debate on Friday Mtshweni appointed Mohlasedi with effect from May 1, after the former director-general Thulani Mdakane was seconded to the presidency. Mohlasedi has big plans for the people of Mpumalanga. “People can expect accelerated service delivery, which could be monitored through the soon-to-be launched Satise Silalele Citizens Engagement App. It will enable members of the public to monitor and report service-delivery issues directly to the director-general, mayors, members of the executive and the premier.”   He has plans to deal with various unsolved issues, such as those which arose when employees from the premier’s office stopped working last month. He said he will strongly strengthen communication with the organised labour through the recently established government-labour consultative forum. “It is a platform where issues of mutual interest between the provincial government and labour are discussed. The forum meets on a monthly basis.” ALSO READ:Mpumalanga’s DG leaves as premier is expected to return He targets the roll-out of more than 27 000 title deeds across the province, including the servicing of 1 015 sites which will be monitored. In the current financial year the provincial office has committed to complete the construction of bulk-water infrastructure by installing water pipes, pumps and building the reservoirs in Tekwane South, Amersfoort, Embalenhle, Ridgeview and Siyanqoba. Mohlasedi aims to achieve at least 80 per cent for the grade 12 pass rate, increase physical science from 23,3 per cent to 28 per cent, and increase maths results from 18,8 per cent to 23 per cent. “We will monitor the process of eradicating unsafe pit toilets to at least 95 per cent. The provincial government is currently at 70 per cent. “As part of celebrating the centenary of Nelson Mandela, a statue will be erected in front of the Riverside Government Complex. “Addressing health-care challenges, the intention is to give special attention to issues including human resources, health-care facilities in both hospitals and community health-care centres. “We will continue to ensure the completion of infrastructure projects depending on the programmes for each project, including Bethal Hospital, Mmametlhake Hospital as well as continuation of ongoing projects like Mpaulaneng Hospital and various community health centres. “We will catagorise the upgrading and maintenance of roads into economic coal haulage routes to tourist and social access roads,” Mohlasedi concluded.