The Local Choice Pharmacy has a friendly team that go out of their way to help people get, feel and live better and have the well-being of the community at heart. Precious Mabuza. Diya Akoojee and Christina Govender. Local Choice Pharmacies take the time to offer personal care to each patient and to make a positive difference to their daily lives. “All our pharmacies offer that personal touch in their local communities. As you walk in, you find that they go out their way to assist and get to know their customers – they truly care,” said Rachelle Campbell, the group marketing manager of Local Choice Pharmacies. Winnie Mashego and Priscilla Nkosi. ith over 75 stores around the country and five in the Lowveld, they still make it a given to ensure they work with local communities. “Our pharmacists work very closely with the community and we are involved in a few CSI projects, such as the Million Comforts Campaign which collects sanitary towels for underprivileged high school girls all over the country. That is just one of the many big annual drives for us and we also do many fund-raisers for children in need and other organisations in local communities,” explained Campbell. Thandi Ndlovu, Isabella Kasilembo, Walter Mlimi and Cindy Lubisi. They also take part in the annual South African Sleep Out during the month of June, where they choose organisations and beneficiaries that are within the community and spend a night out in the cold, all in the name of raising funds for those in need. Sr Rose Mdluli The Local Choice Pharmacies also have clinics within the pharmacies and offer the primary health care services, vaccinations, baby clinics, and with winter around the corner they also currently have a big drive on the Flu vaccines. “Whether it is within the store, a local project, a corporate health day or a contribution to a local school – all that we do, we do with the local communities’ needs in mind,” said Campbell. This pharmacy is not just concerned with the well-being of the community but also the well-being of their own staff. “This previous week we had a strategic session with head office to ensure that our employees know each other. Continuous self and professional development is vital for a growing organisation to improve its service and our offerings to the franchisees and customers.” Thandi Magagula. They also have a rewards programme that they see as way to thank the loyal customers for their ongoing support, where they earn instant discount with their in-store purchases.