 MBOMBELA –  On Monday complaints were received about an ox standing in the veld next to the Kaapsehoop Road. Previous grievances included cattle on the N4 at Cairn on April 18 as well as on the road in the Hazyview area on April 21. Lowvelder reported on several cattle-related accidents in the past, including one in which 11 people died when a taxi hit two cows last December. Read also: No one claims wandering cattle Paul Vivier, a local resident, said in one week there were at least three incidents of cattle blocking the road on the N4 close to Halls Gateway. “We have complained to TRAC, which said that it is unable to do anything. During the day they are at least visible but during the evening it is very hard and the chances are very slim of you being able to stop before hitting one of them.” Paul Vivier’s son-in-law’s vehicle after the cattle accident. Solange Soares-Nicholson, TRAC spokesman, said that particular section of the N4 is managed by the municipality and is not part of TRAC’s concession. Vivier’s son-in-law was also involved in a cattle-related accident four years ago and they do not want a repeat. “They need to make a plan with the fencing at the side of the road as the cattle keep escaping,” Vivier stated. Read also: UPDATE: Death toll rises to 11 in taxi crash on the R538
Moeti Mmusi, community safety, security and liaison spokesman, said it is a problem for them as well. “When cattle get knocked down, nobody wants to claim ownership. We do not put up fences around the road ourselves but we appeal to all cattle owners who are farming alongside the roads to look after their livestock and to put up fences to keep them from wandering to the road,” he said.
The City of Mbombela said in a statement that it has noted the risk of stray animals on public roads, compromising safety. “Owners of animals are obligated to exercise control over them by ensuring that they do not stray onto the public roads. Paul Vivier’s son-in-law’s vehicle after the cattle accident. “In most cases the straying animals lack identification which is also an offence and punishable by law. We urge all animal owners to remain compliant with the litany of pieces of legislation governing the keeping of animals within the City of Mbombela,” read the statement.