 NGODWANA – A technical error at Sappi’s Ngodwana Mill has been causing a strong odour to fill the air since Saturday morning. Sappi Elsabe Coetzee explained that one of the planetary coolers on the lime kiln broke and as a result the lime kiln had to be shut down. “The lime kiln plays an integral part in the mill’s odour management,” she said. It’s role is to incinerate the odour which is generated when wood chips are cooked. Not being able to incinerate the odour could result in some odour detected in areas outside of Ngodwana, depending on weather conditions – especially in times of temperature inversions and lower airflow. The odour can be compared to cooking cabbage at home, and although it poses no health risk to people or the environment, it can smell quite unpleasant – especially for expectant mothers who have a heightened sense of smell. “Ngodwana Mill values our community and if anyone has been inconvenienced by odour stemming from the unfortunate breakage, please accept our sincere apology,” said Coetzee. The mill has implemented a perfume dousing system which reduces the odour, and since the kiln came offline on Saturday morning, they have increased the perfume dosing frequency and concentration to further reduce the odour. The mill’s planned annual shut starts on Saturday May 5 and the mill has moved up the upgrade and planned maintenance schedule on the lime kiln due to the failure of the planetary cooler. During the shut, which will last until  May 25, the mill will be off and there will be no odour. The mill starts up again on May 25, however the lime kiln will be kept offline for another 20 days so that it can be upgraded. During this time it is possible that an odour may be detected. “Whilst management understands that the odour could be unpleasant, the benefits of upgrading the lime kiln is enormous, as the upgrade will mean that a greater percentage of the cooking odour will be incinerated, thereby reducing odour even more. The mill will continue the perfume dosing system for the duration of the periods that the kiln will be offline,” she concluded. Please do not hesitate to contact the mill about the odour: Mia.Smith@sappi.com. Here are some very interesting facts about the mill 