 MBOMBELA – This was the message of Hermenegildo Matimele of the the National Herbarium
of Mozambique at the recent launch of Trees and Shrubs of Mozambique, at the botanical gardens in Mbombela and Pretoria this week. Matimele holds a masters in botanical conservation from the University of Cape Town. At present he is responsible for identifying priority areas for plant conservation at the National Herbarium of Mozambique. This is currently done through vegetation surveys throughout the country to identify plants and map their distribution as well as determine their conservation status under the International Union for Conservation of Nature Red List criteria and categories. Jacolien and Binno Steyn. Trees and Shrubs of Mozambique provides the first accurate and comprehensive account of the woody plants of the country, their distribution and how to identify them through the use of keys, descriptions and illustrations. The book is aimed at botanists – both amateur and professional – conservationists, foresters, university and secondary school pupils, NGOs and eco-tourists. The publication took 14 years to complete and covers some 1 800 species of trees and shrubs, illustrated with over 4 000 colour photographs, as well as leaf-line drawings and distribution maps.  What makes this bulky but lavish publication even more significant is that it was compiled by four Lowveld botanists: Mervyn Lötter, currently acting manager of biodiversity planning at the Mpumalanga Parks Board; Ernst Schmidt, a botanist and farmer from Hazyview; and John and Sandra Burrows of the Buffelskloof conservatory and herbarium near Lydenburg. Mervyn and Tracy Lötter with their children Amy and Kaitlyn. The indigenous forests of Mozambique and its ages-old tree life are currently under serious threat, as a vast tonnage of these woods is annually being harvested and exported, mostly to the Far East. Stricter measures against indigenous deforestation and certain curbs on the export of wood were put in place in the past few years. Tropical forests cover more than half of the southern African country’s landmass but China’s insatiable appetite for rare types of wood to feed its furniture industry – and an uncontrolled surge in logging – means Mozambique is being stripped of its slow-growing tropical forests while some hardwood species are facing extinction. Tommie Steyn, Linda and Duncan McKenzie and Willem Froneman. To tackle the crisis, the government has launched a slew of measures that include a ban on the export of all unprocessed logs and a five-year moratorium on the exploitation of vulnerable species. New logging permits will also not be issued until at least 2019. “There was no regulation in the past, but now we have managed some strong regulations,” said the environment minister, Celso Correia. “And we have increased our capacity of command and control on the field.” But the work of policing the sprawling country’s vast forests is “complicated”, Correia told the AFP news agency last year. “It’s been a big challenge for the country. We don’t have sufficient means, we don’t have enough personnel to deploy in the forests where the trees are sawn down.” Vilma Machava, Vera Bandeira and Alice Massingue. In February this year Correia announced that the Mozambican state loses $2,5 billion each year, resulting from the persistent illegal logging in the provinces of Tete, Zambézia and Sofala. He said during a broadcast on the state-controlled Mozambique television station, TVM, the losses stem in part from the collaboration of community leaders in covering up for illegal logging in their regions. “Even after the announcement of zero tolerance on illegal logging, illegal operators do not respect the Mozambican authorities and insist on the clandestine devastation of timber, including protected species.” Trees and Shrubs of Mozambique is currently available at its launch price of R999. To order send an email to robin@printmatters.co.za. 