 Pretoriuskop is the best place to stay when visiting the Kruger National Park (KNP).
This popular camp was awarded best rest camp at the 19th KNP Achievement Awards ceremony at Skukuza last Friday. The bush camp of the year award went to Biyamiti, and Sweni Wilderness Camp received the wilderness trails camp of the year award. Orpen Gate was awarded as best entrance gate. The Stolznek Section ranger post was awarded as best and the bravery award went to field ranger Albert Mkansi of Lower Sabie Section. Pretoriuskop Rest Camp received the camp of the year award. The managing executive’s special award went to the SANParks fleet management steering committee.
Special team effort and leadership awards went to various teams and Total SA, which has supported the event since its inception and was also awarded for the best performing petrol stations in the park: Mopani Filling Station received first prize, Shingwedzi second and Crocodile Bridge third prize. ALSO READ:Under Siege – Part 1: KNP under threat from Moz crime syndicates The award for environmental education contribution went to three teams: Lugedlane Primary School outside Malelane Gate, Thulani Primary School outside Paul Kruger Gate and Basopa High School outside Punda Maria Gate. Appreciation awards also went to Rhino Tears and Saint-Gobain Gyproc for financial support towards anti-poaching, the Amarula Trust for donations to ranger services, the state veterinary services and a few other individuals.
“We honour employees who performed beyond their call of duty in their respective fields of work,” said managing executive Glenn Phillips, who also launched the park’s 120-year centenary celebration which will commence soon. SANParks chief operating officer, Lize McCourt reminded staff members of the importance of maintaining the organisation’s values.  All the finalists went through a selection phase based on a set of stringent assessment criteria. ALSO READ:Four people injured in vehicle accident in the KNP Apart from their achievements, individual nominees had to possess qualities such as independent and progressive thinking, initiative and creativity, a positive approach to work, leadership and ability to interact at all levels regardless of training and skills. The awards for facilities were judged on areas such as overall performance, implementation of various systems, financial performance and management, guest complaints and compliments, compliance with policies and general neatness of the facility.