 It is that time of the year again when the public participates in one of the most exciting auctions. The annual Chicken Challenge is a fun and thoughtful way to raise funds for GRIP. The online bidding for this year’s Chicken Challenge starts tomorrow at 16:00. The exhibition will open on May 29 at the White River Gallery, Casterbridge Lifestyle Centre. ALSO READ:Chicken Challenge grips hearts and minds GRIP helps thousands of survivors of rape and domestic abuse, from the ages of four to 80 years old. It depends entirely on donated funds and fund-raising initiatives.  Hilton Barnett from We are White River said the public will love the chickens submitted for the 2018 Chicken Challenge. “They are all beautiful and unique. It has been exciting to open a new box every day and find an extraordinary chicken decorated in its own style. ALSO READ:Chicken Challenge grips hearts and minds Everyone has their own theme. Some are artists and some are people who are just doing it for fun. For those who missed the submission date, they can still enter next year,” said Barnett. Reinette Fourie, the founder of the Chicken Challenge initiative with Karin Daymond and Marlize Meyer in 2014, said the challenge has grown from strength to strength. “The number of people who participate keeps growing every year. They all seem happy to be part of this project and keep coming back. When I started the this project I wanted to work in a group and I like how we are all working together. The chickens have managed to bring people from different backgrounds together in an effort to make difference. There’s a team from Siyabonga Crafters who make 3D canvases which we then sell to participants. They then take them home, decorate them in their own style and they hand them over to us willingly then we sell them,” she explained. Fourie said when she started the project,  all she wanted was to  make a difference in someone’s life. “I first thought of various organisations and at the end I decided to work with GRIP. With this initiative we have managed to help thousands of women. Through our sponsors and support from the public we have managed to do it every year since 2014.” To participate in this initiative and make a difference in the Lowveld, register online for the auction at chickenchallenge.co.za.