 MBOMBELA – Sometimes it pays off to believe in your luck. Just ask Melody Tomlinson, who won a surprise weekend away at the South African Council for Business Women’s (SACBW) suitcase party last Thursday. Tomlinson’s name was the lucky one drawn, which secured her a three-night stay in Windhoek. READ MORE: Pack your bags, you may be going on an unplanned vacation Her husband couldn’t attend the party, but she had his passport handy to ensure they could claim the prize. She said she had joked beforehand that she would just WhatsApp Cobus when she wins. She ended up phoning him and he could hardly believe it. They stayed over at the hotel at the Nelspruit Airfield where the party was held on the evening, and flew out the next day to spend the long weekend in Namibia. Tomlinson was not the only one to arrive with her bags packed, ready to fly off on an adventure that evening. Luckily a host of other cool prizes were up for grabs. Natascha C opened the event with a rendition of “Feeling Good” which set the tone for the event. Together with MC Hardus Hartzenberg’s opera, they kept the audience entertained. While their guests sipped on margaritas and craft beer and munched on the vendors’ delicious food, they held lucky draws for a suitcase full of goodies. Lizelle Grobler and Nomsa Ndlovu each won Limetime Shuttle trips for two, to anywhere in the country. Leandré Coetzer was the lucky winner of a weekend for two at StayEasy Maputo and Quintin Hattingh won a weekend to spend at any City Lodge Hotel in the group. ALSO SEE: Meet Lizelle Grobler, winner of Bring Change Lowveld 2017 The surprise guest was Hester du Bruyn, a former president of SACBW’s national body. “The Lowveld branch is one of our best,” she said. Du Bruyn mentioned that they are re-engineering the council, and members can look forward to a massive launch of their increased digitalisation soon. The SACBW is always looking for new members and any working woman is invited to join. For more information, email nelspruit.admin@sacbw.org. Alternatively, watch this space for more information about its next monthly meeting.