 MBOMBELA – Close cooperation between the community and police has resulted in a decrease in farm attacks in the province of late. This seemed to be the consensus among local crime-fighters when the government released statistics on farm attacks and murders for the first time in 11 years. The last time the statistics were disclosed was in 2007. The Freedom Front Plus leader, Dr Pieter Groenewald, released the report on Saturday. The party had continued to request the figures by way of parliamentary questions and answers, which were finally provided. In 2012 Mpumalanga experienced 24 attacks and two murders. In 2013 there were 68 attacks and six murders. In 2014, 30 attacks and four murders occurred. 2015 showed a rapid decline of 12 attacks and one murder. 2016 had 47 attacks and nine murders. Last year 37 attacks with three murders were reported. The figures show that over the past six years since 2012, there were 3 059 attacks countrywide in which 338 people were killed. Most of the attacks took place in North West (722 attacks) and Gauteng (644 attacks). The province with the highest number of murders during this time, however, is Gauteng (69 murders) and then North West and KwaZulu-Natal (61 murders each). Police spokesman Brig Leonard Hlathi said this decrease in Mpumalanga had been because of an integrated approach to combat crime. “The Constitution puts emphasis on the prevention of crime. It is rather better to be proactive than reactive.” He said although crime statistics were down, there was no reason to celebrate. “There is still room for improvement and until there are no victims of crime, there is much to be done.” Hi-Tech Security operations manager, Callum MacPherson said this was due to the structure between community members and the police and various security companies, Nelspruit Concerned Citizens and Bossies Community Justice (BCJ). ALSO READ : Elderly couple fall victim to second farm attack in less than a month MacPherson said Hi-Tech Security had created a special services unit to combat farm attacks. “I think what makes our province different is that we have a good relationship with the police. “One example is the Panga Gang that was brought to justice thanks to everyone coming together to fight crime.” BCJ’s Albert Gryvenstein said he remembers responding to 23 farm attacks in October 2011.
On a national level, MacPherson believed SAPS needed a special task team to address the problem. “There definitely has been a drop in attacks. We have a good cooperation with police and this leads to arrests. “We need to keep this up to keep the numbers down.” Although, MacPherson and Gryvenstein both warned that people should not become complacent. Groenewald said in his statement, “If these figures are compared to other available sources, then they seem to be fairly reliable. It is regrettable that these statistics were swept under the rug under the administration of former president Jacob Zuma.” ALSO READ: Four attacked on farm on the Uitkyk Road The 911 Riders, a local motorcycling organisation which has visited eight provinces to draw attention to the importance of rural safety, welcomed the news that the government had recognised the problem. “It has taken them 11 years to recognise the problem,” spokesman for the group, Past TJ Maré, said. “We need to see desperate action about this.” He said all people are affected by the problem as it affected everyone’s food basket. “The commercial agricultural sector has shrunk as more farmers are leaving as they fear for their lives and the lives of their families. We will soon have to import everything we buy at the store.” Maré concluded that they needed as many people as possible to sign a petition they are handing over to the minister of police and the national police commissioner. This takes place during their final ride against farm attacks to Gauteng in June. To sign it online, find “We unite against farm murders and attacks in South Africa” at thepetitionsite.com.