 MBOMBELA – The highly anticipated Kishugu Lowveld Air Show is here and the excitement is tangible. On Saturday the best aerobatic pilots and their machines will wow the crowds. Organisers are bringing top-of-the-class performers to the Lowveld and spectators are in for an all-day and all-night treat. The air show will also offer a wide variety of delicious food vendors, exhibitions and the biggest kids play area to date, hosted by the Just 4 Fun team, well known for its huge kids entertainment area at the Uplands Festival each year. Parents can let their children play in a safe, secure and fun area on the day at no additional cost. Some of the entertaining free rides available will include a mechanical bull and surfboard, a diesel train on tracks, the thrilling parachute rocket, target shooting gallery, a fly wall, water rollers and pedal karts. For as little as R150 per adult and R100 per schoolchild, aviation enthusiasts can enjoy great entertainment with no hidden costs. And what’s more, preschoolers will enjoy free entrance. Spectators can expect a full day of aviation tricks and delights, including a friendly rematch between a Jaguar F-Type and Gazelle helicopter, this time in a relay race with the Range Rover Sport Supercharge, and a live rock show after the spectacular fireworks display. Drive the Jaguar taking on a Gazelle Come dressed in your best rock ‘n roll attire for the live rock show after all the action in the air. Lowvelders can look forward to a rocking performance by the talented local band, Gibraltar. They have promised to bring an electric performance to those ready to party the night away. Lead singer, Jaime Negrao, said the band are extremely excited about performing at Rock the Runway after-party, “There are very few bands in the world who can say they have performed on a runway, and we cannot wait to rock into the night at the Lowveld air show.” Get ready to unplug your Saturday at this year’s air show on May 12. Don’t get punk’d. Rock your budget by buying your tickets online in advance. Tickets are on sale now on lowveldairshow.co.za. Executive packages are exclusively on sale at the KLCBT centre at Crossing. All you need to know about the Kishugu Lowveld Air Show A sponsor of the Kishugu Lowveld Air Show will give R21 000 to a local charity, chosen via a unique skydiving selection process. Emnotweni has approached the other eight main sponsors of this year’s air show and each has nominated a charity of their choice. Members of the public have picked which of these is their favourite aid organisation by voting on various platforms managed by Lowveld Media. The four charities with the most votes will be announced in Friday’s Lowvelder. On the day of the event, four envelopes – each containing one of the names of the four chosen charities – will be dotted around the airfield. During the opening act a skydiver will descend from the sky and land on one of the envelopes. The name of the lucky organisation to receive the R21 000 donation will then be revealed. The remaining three charities will each be given R2 000. It is not only the charities that will benefit. One voter will win two tickets to the air show and a two-night stay at Southern Sun Emnotweni, with dinner, bed and breakfast included. For this and more, keep your eyes peeled for the jam-packed Kishugu Lowveld Air Show supplement in Friday’s Lowvelder.