Through vision and leadership, the Uplands Festival supports local art and culture.  We collaborate to bring artists, entertainers and crafts to the local community, providing a platform for families to enjoy a weekend of great entertainment, and raising funds for local charities.  Art-lovers are encouraged to attend the opening of the ever-popular art exhibition and browse to find the perfect piece to take home.  In addition to the Sports Derby, there will be Stadium Eventing and Show Jumping held at the beautiful Uplands Equestrian Centre.  On Sunday, there will be a variety of MTB (mountain bike) races, making use of the superb MTO trails with over 750 entrants, and their supporters.  We have a 5km Kids Ride, a 15km Fun Ride, a 30km Challenge and the 55km Classic.  The hub of the activity boasts an up-market street market with numerous food trucks and the festive live music hall with a champagne bar, gin bar and ice-cold beer on tap.  For the sports enthusiasts, there will be big screen rugby and the UEFA Champions League Final.  The kids have a wonderful kids’ play area in which they create lasting memories.  There will be displays from the Dullstroom Birds of Prey as well as snake and spider displays to keep the young amused.  In this, the school’s 90th year, we are privileged to be joined by The Artists’ Press and on Saturday at 14:00, they will host a most informative talk at their exclusive pop-up shop.  Each year, we put on a different range of main attractions.  There is an exciting line-up of theatre shows, featuring the newest show from the Kalk Bay Theatre with multi-award winners Follow Spot Productions called The Alchemy of Rock; Matthew Ribnick performs in a hilarious fusion of stand-up and sketch comedy called The Funniest Man the world has never heard of; and the Uplands College Drama Department proudly presents an original drama production called CHOICES¿ which is not for the faint-hearted, and tackles issues faced within our complex society.  Escape reality for a while and enjoy our unique concoction of fun!  The Uplands Festival has something for everyone!  It’s guaranteed to be an exciting weekend.  For more information on the Uplands Festival, follow us on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram or call 076 702 3540 or visit our evolving website www.uplandsfestival.co.za for a complete list of artists, entertainers, stage schedules, interactive arts activities and more.  Festival hours: Friday 4pm – late, Saturday 8am – late, Sunday 8am – 4pm
Entry fee: R50 per car for a weekend pass.  Not just another festival, this year one of the Lowveld’s favourite outdoor events promises to be awesome! 