 PIENAAR – Five suspects, aged between 25 and 33, were caught in the crossfire with police around the Mkheyi area on Monday at about 20:30. According to Brig Leonard Hlathi, the suspects were linked to a number of cases which were committed in and around Mbombela, including a recent business robbery in the early hours of Monday morning, at a filling station in Rocky Drift. “In that robbery, five men held the staff at gunpoint, demanded keys to a drop safe. They then took packs of cigarettes and fled the scene leaving a bag full of explosives behind.” Police in conjunction with Matrix vehicle tracking, as well as a private security company, tracked down a stolen white Ford Ranger. “When the suspects saw the law enforcers, they sped off and that gave rise to a chase as well as a shoot-out between the law enforcers and the criminals, leading to one of the suspects being shot dead in the process. ” During the chase, the suspect’s vehicle lost control, plunged into a wall and all the suspects were injured. They were then arrested and taken to hospital under police guard. “A firearm together with ammunition were seized at the scene and it will be sent to ballistics for further investigation,” Hlathi stated. The four remaining suspects face charges of carjacking, business robbery, possession of suspected stolen property, possession of unlicensed firearm and ammunition as well as other misdemeanours relevant to their actions. “As soon as the suspects are declared fit, they will be taken to court. However, they will currently appear in absentia.” The Provincial Commissioner of the Police in Mpumalanga, Lt Gen Mondli Zuma, appreciated the joint efforts of the police and the other law enforcers who played a role in capturing these villains. “This will send a clear message to all criminals that police are and will remain unshaken by lawbreakers. We will continue to work diligently with other stakeholders to remove criminals from communities and ensuring that people are and feel safe,” said Zuma.