 MBOMBELA – Learners and parents tend to dismiss the importance of mid-year exams in high school. They do not see them as important building blocks but rather as trial runs for final exams. Peter Kriel, general manager at The Independent Institute of Education, SA’s largest private higher education institution, says mid-year exams play a significant role, and a very specific one in each grade, and should be taken as seriously as final exams. “From grade eight, exams should be viewed as progressively building a house, laying the foundations, building with bricks and cement, rounding off and finally, putting the roof on the end product when you finish your matric exams.” Here is the significance of mid-year exams for all grades in high school: Grade eight This is learners’ first significant mid-year exam and this is where they start to develop interests and strengths in certain subjects. Kriel says before settling on a future path, learners should use their time advantage in grade eight to thoroughly investigate all their options for higher education institutions and qualifications, and very importantly, entry requirements for each. READ ALSO: Turn exam panic into finals advantage with these easy tips Grade nine At the end of grade nine learners have to make their subject choices for grades 10 to 12. It is important to achieve good marks during the mid-year exams in the subjects you want to choose. This insight allows a learner to make a call on whether to continue pursuing a subject despite less than stellar performance – which will mean working extra hard and getting additional help. Grade 10 This is the last opportunity for substitution of subjects that are not working out for learners. They might want to change these subjects due to poor performance in mid-year exams. Learners should thus either have to study hard if it is a subject they really want to pursue or swap it for something else. READ ALSO: Tips for stress free exams Grade 11 From this year on, mid-year exams become even more significant, because learners can already use these marks to apply to their institution of choice early with provisional marks. Doing so will take mountains of stress and admin off them in the coming year and a half, when all their energies should be focused on their matric preparation. Grade 12 Matric mid-year exam marks can – and should – be used to apply to a higher education institution if this was not yet done.“If you haven’t yet at this stage applied, ensure that you do so as soon as possible,” says Kriel. Thus importance of mid-year exams should not be ignored. They can indeed have a significant impact on your high school and secondary education. READ ALSO: Mpumalanga final matric exams go off without a hitch