 ORPEN GATE – Deafening silence reigns when a white rhino carcass is found without a horn. A regular visitor to the Kruger National Park recently experienced, first hand, the grim footprint left by poaching. Rupak Hattikudur, a software engineer from Johannesburg who recently moved here from India, recounted a morning bush walk from Orpen Rest Camp with his mother Usha. They, accompanied by a couple and two guides, set out at first light. “After driving on the tar road for a while, we drove into the bush and after traversing the tough terrain, we got off the safari vehicle,” Hattikudur said. After they were briefed about the rules of the walk, they set out. No more than 100 metres away, the group saw around 10 vultures in a tree waiting for their next meal. He recalled how hyenas started laughing, lions started roaring and how surreal it was. “This was the Africa we had read about in textbooks way back in school. To witness this first hand, you can hardly put it in words,” Hattikudur said. He remembered how animal and bird behaviour changed, and how much more responsive they became with the group approaching on foot. “The closer we got to the vultures, the further away they receded,” he said. “On the route, one of the guides stopped and started talking to us as the smell of a decomposing carcass filled the air. “The laughing of hyenas intensified and the group got excited by this unreal and exciting African bush experience,” he related. The vultures provided a clue as to where the carcass was located. Then, the excitement quickly turned to horror when the guide informed that the carcass they had so highly anticipated, was that of a rhino. All signs led to poaching. Upon Lowvelder’s enquiry, suspicions were confirmed by the park’s spokesman, Reynold Thakhuli. “We can confirm that a white rhino was poached in Kingfisherspruit. The case is being investigate, but no arrests have been made,” he stated. “I did not want to believe this. We moved slowly and steadily towards the carcass. The stench became stronger, and the hyenas, more timid in their approach,” said Hattikudur. When they came across the carcass of the white rhino with its missing horn, they were stunned. “It was like a mourning of sorts for a few moments. The guides, the people who had come for the walk, even the hyenas and the vultures joined us in the deafening silence to what we had just witnessed,” he recalled. The guides called up the nearest rest camp to report what they had seen. What followed was a long discussion about poaching in the park and other reserves in the country. “I explained how it was rampant in my country, India, as well. He mentioned that it was regrettable that this was happening – our very own people were fighting with each other (poachers and the anti-poaching team) to make some quick money by selling this to Asian countries,” Hattikudur explained. “We left the scene with a heavy heart while the hyenas and vultures feasted. It was a sad day for me indeed, and for every single one of us who strive to make this world a better place, day after day,” he concluded. The case is still under investigation. Also read: New stats reveal a drop in farm attacks Toddler left with nanny eaten by leopard in Uganda’s national park