 MBOMBELA – A cemetery is a final, dignified resting place where friends and family can visit their loved ones long after they have passed. At Rocky Drift Cemetery, however, people do not feel safe. “The fact that it feels unsafe to visit the grave of a loved one, is a major issue. It almost feels like you have to go with a weapon just to lay down some flowers,” said Bianca Swanepoel. She and her mother visit this cemetery often as her father was buried there in 2006. Read also: 12 injured in Rocky Drift pile-up “The security is nowhere to be found, the walls around the cemetery are broken and have never been fixed, and thorn trees are growing all over the place making it hard to walk to the graves. Garbage is also lying around everywhere and some of the tombstones have fallen over or graves have fallen in. It’s horrific,” Swanepoel said. She also added that her mother started crying the last time they visited her father’s grave because she was distraught by the horrible conditions at the cemetery. The broken fence. Joseph Ngala, Mbombela municipal spokesman, said that the cemetery is maintained continuously as per council’s maintenance programme. “The fence at Rocky Drift is in the process to be repaired where it is damaged. Complaints received about the cemetery are attended as per the nature of the complaint and will be addressed in due time.” Ngala confirmed that Mbombela has 14 cemeteries under its jurisdiction. Of these seven have reached full capacity and only second interments and reserved graves are used. Read also: No water in Rocky Drift area
“Ten cemeteries are fenced and four are not completely fenced. The fence at Sonheuwel Cemetery at the Muslim section was stolen and is in the process to be replaced. Permanent ablution facilities are available at Sonheuwel, Rocky Drift, White River, Tekwane North and Matsulu’s new cemetery.” Illegal dumping at the cemetery. “It is very sad to see that our loved one’s last resting place is so neglected and filthy,” Swanepoel added.