 The mid-year annual general meeting, shared with a conducted tour of some historical buildings in Waterval Boven, is scheduled for Saturday, June 9. MH is a registered NPO. Its online following surpasses 1 000, with just as many regular newsletters going out twice a month. It has an active paid-up membership of around 200.  High on the agenda is MH’s involvement together with townspeople, for the staging of another ever-so-popular heritage weekend at Pilgrim’s Rest, bringing alive this century-old mining town with activities from the past. Now scheduled for July 20, 21 and 23, these will include the usual Friday night pub crawl and a digger’s dinner and ball – complete with cancan girls – for the Saturday evening. A programme of special daytime activities, like gold panning and special conducted museum and town tours, will soon be released. Excellent rates at the local Royal Hotel, with its Victorian-style annexes, have been negotiated – merely R500 per room, sleeping two, per night. A selection of self-catering cottages is also available. In August MH will launch the new Jock Trek 1885 route, now consisting of no less than 35 waypoints and site markers. Of these, many are new or have been replaced by MH, as some of those were previously stolen or damaged. Travel writers from a large selection of national publications will be invited on this two-day trip, after which they will attend the annual Lowveld Book Fair at Casterbridge in White River on August 17 to 19. The fair will also see the launch of the long-awaited book on the old wagon routes passing through the Lowveld, on forgotten tracks and trails of this region, researched and compiled by Gerrit Haarhoff. The event will be on Saturday August 18 at 15:00 at the Barnyard theatre followed by the presentation of the prestigious annual Mpumalanga Heritage Awards. This year no less than four recipients are being honoured for their contribution of documenting the history of the province. Another highlight of historical interest at the Lowveld Book Fair will be a talk by Dr Salomon Joubert, a previous head of SANParks on his publication in three volumes: Kruger National Park: A History.  In October, together with the Friends of the Barberton Museum, MH will be co-hosts of the annual SA Heritage Association’s annual symposium. Though the focus will be on the Geo Trail and the possibility of the Barberton Mountainlands being declared a world heritage site, the visitors will also be treated on a conducted excursion along the old Pettigrew wagon route between Barberton and Pettigrew’s Neck. In November MH members will be visiting the historical mining town of Cullinan as guests of the local heritage association. More detail will be made available soon. To join Mpumalanga Heritage or to receive the regular newsletter, contact Linda Grimbeeck at linda@klcbt.co.za. Membership is R175 per household per year. This includes several monthly history outings planned every year, free of charge.