 The Mpumalanga Economic Growth Agency (MEGA) has taken responsibility for the strike which saw workers close the Lydenburg road (R37) for hours on Wednesday. Subcontractors and construction workers at the International Fresh Produce Market, still being built, blocked the road with trucks in protest after not getting paid on time. Themba Camane from MEGA told Lowvelder that the long weekend affected their payment of the main contractor, Liviero Civils, which in turn was unable to pay its workers. Workers standing outside the gate. “We spoke to the main contractor in the morning and we are busy making payment arrangements. The subcontractors will be paid later today,” he said on Wednesday. The workers said they are tired of the inconsistency in salary payments by MEGA to Liviero Civils. Last month subcontractors held site manager Yeashiel Mabudeo against his will due to the serious delay of March salaries. “We have never received our salaries on time and it is a huge inconvenience for us because they expect us to report for duty yet they do not pay us,” one of the striking workers told the newspaper. ALSO READ:Protest leads to R37 closure “Sometimes we come to work, they tell us that they do not have diesel for the machines that we use to do the work. What makes us angry is that for those days when they do not have diesel they do not pay us. “Liviero pays their employers but do not pay our managers (subcontractors) and they tell us stories. How are we supposed to get to work without transport money and with no money to buy food? We have families and they do not understand how we always get our salaries late.” Workers closed the R37. MEGA said it will spend about R307 million by the end of the 2017/18 financial year. Last month the site manager said the main contractor had not received any payment since December. “Our company had to pay the subcontractors and they now do not have money to pay for March salaries,” said Mabudeo. MEGA later sent an apology and said it had made the payments. ALSO READ:MEC reiterates reasons for MEGA board disbandment
“They still did not pay the subcontractors all the money they were supposed to get. They just compensated us and we still want them to pay them all the money,” explained another worker. In February the work on site was interrupted by a group of men allegedly holding pangas, alleging that the employment process used was unlawful and demanded the workers to stop working.
They later returned to work. R37 closed with a truck. The agency said for infrastructure projects, the contractor appoints a community liaison officer who works with a labour desk for the recruitment of labour from communities. “MEGA consulted the local government structures. From there a councillor was identified to assist in the appointment and there is a steering committee that also functions as a labour desk for the recruitment of labour,” said Desiree Ntshingila from MEGA. When asked how they elected the tender on site, they said that they conducted an open tender process for the prequalification of contractors who then tendered on the projects.