 MBOMBELA – Doctors in the province’s public hospitals are working while in fear for their lives. The South African Medical Association (SAMA) said they are leaving if they can and are understandably traumatised. The latest took place in the early hours of Sunday. A doctor was returning to the staff housing from his shift at Mapulaneng Hospital when he noticed an intruder in his house. Mpumalanga police spokesman Sgt Gerald Sedibe said the intruder fled and when the doctor followed, he was shot at. He was not hurt. Police are investigating a case of housebreaking with the intent to commit a crime as well as malicious damage to property as the door was damaged in the shooting. Malumane said there were a number of incidents last year of staff being robbed, sometimes even tied up, in their lodgings on the premises. “In this case of the shooting, it was attempted murder,” he said. “The head of department and MEC know there is an issue. “There was a report with recommendations to improve staff safety in June. Yet they have not done anything. “There are a few armed guards who are supposed to secure the place. They want the hospital to remain gun-free, but at head office there are metal detectors and the MEC has armed bodyguards. “We keep on complaining about the same issues. It has become the norm. Now it has happened. It is increasing in intensity and frequency.” ALSO SEE: Doctors down tool over failing hospitals There have been incidents in other hospitals. Dr Felix Edomni told Lowvelder that Themba Hospital has a “chronic problem”. “There has been persistent break-ins at the doctors’ quarters. There has been an assault and an attempted rape. Doctors are harassed and robbed.” Edomni said incidents also occurred in the casualty section, where patients and their relatives assault doctors out of frustration with slow service. This while the hospital is understaffed and the staff overworked. SEE ALSO: EFF demands better services at Tonga Hospital “When doctors stay away from work over their safety concerns, the department reports them,” Edomni added. “The security of employees is paramount. “There is no way that you can claim to save a patient’s life when you are wondering if you yourself are safe.” At the time of going to press department spokesman, Dumisani Malamule, had not responded to the newspaper’s request for comment.