 The establishment of the new national minimum wage has left South Africans with mixed feelings.
Some say it is the big break the country needed, and others say it affects workers negatively. The national minimum wage is R20 an hour or R3 500 a month for a 40-hour week, and May 1 was the implementation date. It has stirred much emotion, with some labour unions saying the amount is too low and others pondering the negative effects that may result. A farmer in the Hazyview area, Moorreess du Toit, said the implementation of the new minimum wage will affect farm workers and farmers in different ways. “As a farmer, I will not retrench any workers, but I will not be able to employ any new people so that I can pay the workers the required amount. The R3 500 can affect workers in the long run because at the moment the agriculture department has told us that we will not implement it immediately. However, when we have to start implementing it, it will affect the employment rate. ALSO READ:What salary does the average South African take home? “Some employers will let go or cut off staff and some will not be able to increase the number of employees. For example, some families have two parents who are working at a farm and they get R3 000 each, so since an employer will not be able to pay the required amount they will then have to cut staff. At the end of the day the family will have to rely on R3 500 salary and it will not be easy since they used to rely on R6 000. I also feel the minimum wage is politically influenced. We need to also remember that the employees are slowly being replaced by automated machines and the agriculture field has more people who are not educated, so they will be affected by this,” he said. Vanessa Bates is a wife and working mother who has a domestic worker assisting her.
She says the minimum wage is “ridiculous” considering how much the employer gets per month. “Imagine you live with your worker, you provide accommodation and food then you need pay her after that. Some employers are considering letting go of their helpers because it does not help keeping a person who you will not be able to afford paying them. We need to consider the salary the employer is getting before setting the amount the employee must get. It differs from one employer to another,” Bates stated. ALSO READ:A minimum wage of R20 per hour has been approved by government
A subcontractor from Mbombela said the minimum wage will not affect his workers. “The department of labour has instructed us to pay R34 per hour so we will not decrease it to R20 because that will not be good for the workers,” he explained. Lara de Clerk, a community member, said any amount above R2 000 will surely make a difference. “If the workers can get more, it will help a lot considering that the VAT has increased.”
According to Treasury, unemployment in South Africa is currently 26,7 per cent. If people who have given up looking for work are included, that number rises to over 36 per cent. One of the main reasons why people are poor is that they do not have access to employment. Over 6,7 million people earn less than R4 000 a month. According to the department, introducing a national minimum wage will often have little or no negative effect on employment, and if correctly implemented, it can have positive impacts on poverty levels.