 Barely a month after the Department of Community Safety, Security and Liaison issued a stern warning about LED light bars illegally fitted to vehicles, it started to clamp down as promised. Wynand Labuschagne, the deputy director at the department, said the National Road Traffic Act does not allow the installation of non-factory fitted LED bars which have become a massive risk to other motorists. ALSO READ:Stern warning issued: No LED lights allowed Several roadblocks were held in and around Mbombela on Wednesday to clamp down on this issue. “Culprits caught during the roadblocks were fined heftily while also being ordered to remove them. Those who refused, had their LED lights confiscated,” Labuschagne said.  This caused an outrage on social media as most felt that the department did not have the right to confiscate their property. Labuschagne wishes to refer them to Article 20 of the Criminal Procedure Act which states that the state (which includes the traffic department) may seize anything which is concerned in or is on reasonable grounds believed to be concerned in the commission or suspected commission of an offence.
He further explained that they will continue to clamp down on offenders, until they regain control over this problem. ALSO READ:The illegality of LED lights explained “The Traffic Act does not allow the display of LED lights whatsoever. It is strictly against the law,” Labuschagne emphasised. “The utilisation of LED lights has become dangerous and the use thereof could lead to accidents which could lead to fatalities,” he said and warned users of such lights that their behaviour constitutes inconsiderate driving – which in terms of the law, is punishable. To recap Lowvelder’s previous article:
All the lights on your vehicle have to be fitted at equal distances from an imaginary central line. To understand where this line sits, picture your vehicle from the front and draw a vertical line through the manufacturer’s badge on the grille. This line, running from the ground vertically through the roof, is the central line. All your lights have to be fitted at equal distances from this line and no light may cross this line.
To remain in the clear, LED lights are to be installed at equal distances from the central line and have to be SABS approved.
If your vehicle has been fitted with LED headlights in the factory they would already comply with SABS requirements.
It is important to keep in mind that there is a set of SABS specifications to comply with when adding additional lights to a vehicle. The best advice would be to check with your local licensing/traffic authority to ensure that your vehicle and its lights are regarded and cleared as being roadworthy. Spotlamps or spotlights
Spotlamps can be adjusted to enable a beam of light emitted from them to be deflected in any direction. In other words:
• It may only be used for official purposes on any ambulance, rescue, firefighting, police, or traffic-control vehicles; may be fitted to a vehicle owned by a medical practitioner or veterinarian, and used in the execution of such person’s professional duties;
• May be fitted to a breakdown vehicle or a vehicle employed in connection with the supply of electricity or other public essential services; provided that it is used solely at the scene of an accident or breakdown or for the examination of overhead telephone, telegraph or power lines. Extra headlights (sometimes  incorrectly referred to as spotlights) As a general guide, where there are an extra set of head lamps, they are legal. If they can be adjusted, they are illegal.
These lamps are a set of fixed lamps and as long as they comply with the head-lamp requirements, they should be legal. They are not spotlights. Make sure you don’t have more than six “headlights” on the front of your vehicle (including the  factory-fitted ones) and don’t fit them higher than 1,4 metres off the ground.
So no matter what, a set of extra head lamps on your roof rack or roll bar can get you into trouble. It’s not good enough to simply disconnect the lights. If you don’t connect your light to a separate switch, it can get you into trouble.