 WHITE RIVER – Uplands’ celebrations are always something to remember and their 90th won’t disappoint. This year one of the Lowveld’s favourite outdoor events promises to bring a high standard of art, entertainment and crafts and provide a platform for families to enjoy a weekend while raising funds for local charities. Festivalgoers can look forward to an exciting line-up of stage productions, an art exhibition, sports derby, stadium events, showjumping, MTB races, a street market with delicious food, live music and ice-cold drinks, and rugby and the UEFA Champions League on the big screen.  ALSO READ: 90th Birthday Celebrations at Uplands Festival 2018 The tiny tots can enjoy themselves in a play area specially set up for them.Theatre lovers can look forward to a diverse collection of plays. Alchemy of Rock, a comedic musical revue, is sleek, fast-paced, and cleverly packaged. It is created by a multi-award-winning team and is designed to get one laughing, singing, dancing, toe-tapping and clapping to the sounds of Dire Straits, The Doors, AC/DC, Pink Floyd and more. Uplands College Drama Department also presents an original drama production Choices. This collaborative workshop theatre with 16 dynamic dramatic-arts learners tackles the unspoken truths of challenged youth in the South African context. A CANSA tea garden, manned by the organisation’s debutantes, will be a good place to rest weary feet, enjoy a cuppa and have a scrumptious bite. Guests can browse through a selection of books at bargain prices, enjoy a fashion show from some leading boutiques while having a drink or just relaxing.  ALSO READ: Penryn is no match for Uplands Several artists – including some who will show their work to the public for the first time – will exhibit at the art festival.  Dee Adams (photography), Vianca Malan, Gavin Taylor (small colourful abstract works), Jan Balt (pictures burnt on wood) and Bob Mnisi (paintings on palm-tree branches) will be joined by Everine Cason, who turned 90 in March. Many old faithfuls will also be there with their latest works, as well as Uplands and Penryn. There is no entrance fee to the art festival, but entrance to the Uplands Festival costs R50 per car at the gate, which goes to Rotary’s Camp Quality project. The traditional school sports derby, Uplands vs Penryn College will keep both parents and guests on edge again. Bookings for theatre tickets can be done online. Enquiries: www.uplandsfestival.co.za.  ALSO READ: Dancers burn up the floor at Uplands