 MBOMBELA – The 2018 banquet was held at Emnotweni Arena on Friday, October 19. Special guests representing government departments, as well as members from the Mpumalanga Business Alliance and former presidents, attended. The awards reward outstanding business achievements, sound business practices and recognise those who truly make a difference in the community. READ MORE: KLCBT Only 10 awards were given this year, adding to their prestige. Nine were contested and the MMC President’s Award was the only special award given this year. This went to RCL Foods, formerly known as TSB Sugar, and was received by Hennie Snyman, retired CEO of the former TSB Sugar, and Stella Mthembu from RCL Foods’ Malalane Mill. KLCBT cited its efforts in the early stages of land reform, as well as the 3 000 employees, countless individuals and businesses who depend on RCL Foods and the Lowveld sugar industry as proof of its huge and long-standing impact. The Protea Hotel The Winkler Nedbank Retail and Business Banking Large Business Enterprise Award: Peet Mocke from Nedbank Retail and Business Banking; Simon Sutherland and Lebo Mgiba from Protea Hotel The Winkler, and TJ Maré, business chairman of KLCBT. AVS Hire Tracker Connect Medium Business Enterprise Award: Sakkie Coetzer from AVS Hire, Elma Bezuidenhout from Tracker and Kyle Nel from AVS Hire. LabourNet Nelspruit Nelspruit Fasteners Small Business Enterprise Award: Sanel Uys and Almeri du Toit from LabourNet and Ferdi Bijzet from Nelspruit Fasteners. The Protea Hotel by Marriott Nelspruit Crossing Superspar Tourism Large Enterprise Award: Werner van Niekerk from Crossing SUPERSPAR and Garrick Grabe from Protea Hotel by Marriott Nelspruit. African Savanna Travel Tourism SMME Award: Janneke Henning from Hotels.com and Tanja Joubert from African Savanna Travel. Unyati Safari Lodge Konica Minolta SA Entrepreneur Award: Gary and Izelle Geyer from Unyati Safari Lodge and Gerhard van Tonder from Konica Minolta. The Graskop Glass Lift was rewarded with the Tshwane University of Technology Innovation Award for taking local tourism by storm. Tshwane University of Technology Innovation Award: Dr Annemarie Breytenbach from TUT, James Sheard and Oupa Pilane from the Graskop Gorge Lift, Sizile Ndlovu, vice chairman of Kruger Lowveld Tourism. Sappi Ngodwana Mill’s Alien Invasive Plant Management and Development Programme Halls Properties Alan Bachelor Environmental Award: Susan Slabbert from SAPPI Ngodwana Mill and Sabine Walker from Halls Properties. This year Sappi also introduced its #CommunityMatters Award. Keeping Our Kids Clean, Care Buddies and SPCA Nelspruit were nominated, with each organisation receiving a cheque of R5 000. Care Buddies Nelspruit was named the winner. SAPPI Limited Nelspruit Community Service Award St John’s Care Centre received the Sappi Limited Community Service Award for its excellence in community service. ALSO SEE: Alleged rhino poaching kingpins remain in custody