 STOLSNEK – The intentions of the placement of a potentially incendiary improvised explosive device recently found on the outskirts of the Kruger National Park, remain unknown. Bomb discovered in KNP According to SANParks spokesman, Isaac Phaahla, rangers conducting a patrol with K9 support in the south-western boundary of the KNP flushed out two suspicious-looking individuals hiding in a pipeline underneath the railway line last week. “Upon inspection, the rangers also noticed a suspicious device linked to a battery. The bomb squad was summoned to the scene and identified the device as a pipe bomb,” he said. The bomb was then detonated in a controlled manner. According to an expert in serious and violent crimes, who cannot be named, the detonation in a case like this is done at the discretion of the official on the scene. “If the bomb is deemed unstable, it needs to be detonated. Sometimes it might for example have a secondary battery which could make it unstable,” he said, but added that the exact circumstances remain unclear. He said this, as well as the intentions of the wrongdoers who are yet to be arrested, is pending an investigation by the SAPS. The railway underneath which the two suspects were found has been inactive for years, therefore the derailment of a train can be ruled out. In the meanwhile, there has been a public outcry as the bomb was found on a regular ranger patrol route. A Facebook user, who claims he was actively involved in the prosecution of rhino poachers in the KNP, said this is the first of its kind. “The risk, and the danger of anti-poaching, increased dramatically with this discovery,” the man said in a post that was removed shortly after it was published. He claimed that the bomb was planted with the intentions to kill field rangers. “Anti-poaching reached a new dimension,” he stated. This could, however, not be confirmed as a forensic investigation is currently being conducted.
“It isn’t clear what kind of explosives were used,” the expert told Lowvelder, and therefore statements like these are merely speculations. “Normally these kinds of bombs contain nails or ball bearings or pellets, and are normally used to inflict serious bodily harm,” he said. As the bomb was detonated, the composition of the device will only be known when the investigation is concluded. “If the bomb was intended to inflict harm, then yes, the war against poaching has entered a new dimension.” He added that the Explosives Act of 2003 states no person may posses or carry out any activity relating to explosives without a permit.
The act also states that no one is allowed to manufacture unauthorised explosives. Any person who intentionally places or discharges explosives with the intent to cause death or serious bodily harm is guilty of an offence. A forensic analysis will now try and connect DNA to possible suspects. Traces of the explosives found at the detonation site will also be analysed.
Capt Phillip Fakude, station commander of Skukuza Police Station, confirmed that no arrests have been made. The case is currently under investigation. Also read: Forensics to decide the fate of alleged pig thief