 As the northern parts of South Africa head into the rainy summer season, visitors to areas like the Lowveld are warned to pay the necessary attention to protect themselves from the dangerous mosquito-borne illness. The rainy summer season is associated with an increase in the numbers of malaria-carrying Anopheles mosquito and a considerably enhanced risk of contracting the illness within the endemic areas of southern Africa. The risk is highest between September through to the following May, which is considered to be ‘malaria season’ in South Africa. Doctors warn that malaria infection can result in serious complications, particularly if it is not identified and treated at an early stage. Travellers are advised to do their homework before visiting the Lowveld. Malaria poses a risk in the northern parts of Limpopo, eastern Mpumalanga and northern KwaZulu-Natal as well as in parts of neighbouring countries such as Mozambique, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Namibia. Facts and myths about Malaria, amended from information supplied by Netcare • Anopheles mosquitoes transmits malaria. Only about 30 to 40 of the 3 500 mosquito species can transmit malaria. Only the females of these species transmit the disease. • Take steps to avoid getting bitten by mosquitoes, such as spraying fabric insecticides on your clothes as well as wearing long-sleeved tops and long pants, especially between dusk and dawn. • 90 percent of worldwide malaria-related deaths that occur in Africa. The majority of these are children under the age of five. • Malaria is estimated to cost Africa more than $12 billion every year in lost GDP. • Fever, chills, headache, and other flu-like symptoms are common symptoms of malaria. Proper diagnosis and early treatment can usually prevent severe illness and death. • Eating garlic does not offers protection against malaria. • It takes just one bite from an infected mosquito to pass on the infection. • Immunity ceases soon after the you leave an endemic malaria area. On return you are at greater risk of contracting malaria, as they usually take no precautions. • Children above the weight of 11 kilogram, may take paediatric prophylaxis. Read more: Malaria prophylaxis now available without a prescription • A vaccine could be rolled out in the next couple of years, thanks to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. • Malaria needs to be properly managed through early diagnosis and prompt treatment to prevent fatal outcomes. Apart from preventing further complications this also shortens the duration of the disease. • Researchers at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine allow mosquitoes to suck blood from their arms twice a week, as they develop new techniques to combat them. • Mosquitoes act as vectors or carriers to spread the infection to humans of all ages, from babies to the elderly. The Anopheles female mosquito usually feeds (i.e. bites humans) between dusk and dawn. Three provinces in South Africa i.e. Limpopo, Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal are high-risk areas for malaria, with transmission occurring predominantly between September and May.  • An infected mosquito does not suffer, unlike the human it infects who could present with symptoms, sometimes within days of being bitten. • Overlanders who should consider taking rapid malaria testing kits plus standby treatment when going to remote areas in endemic malaria regions for prolonged periods. • Pregnant women should avoid travelling to areas where malaria transmission occurs, and parents are advised not to take their infants or young children to areas where there is risk of P. falciparum malaria. When this cannot be avoided, it is important to take effective preventive measures against malaria. • Ronald Ross in 1902 was awarded the second medical Nobel Prize for Medicine “for his work on malaria, by which he has shown how it enters the organism and thereby has laid the foundation for successful research on this disease and methods of combating it”. • The time between the infective mosquito bite and the development of malaria symptoms can range from seven to 40 days depending on the type of Plasmodia involved. One strain called P. vivax, may have a prolonged incubation period of eight to ten months. • If you experience flu-like symptoms, always tell your doctor if you have visited a malaria area, demand a blood test and follow up on the result. • Sleeping under insecticide-treated bed nets (ITNs), is a form of personal protection that has been shown to reduce malaria illness, severe disease, and death among those under five years old by about 20 per cent, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Only pyrethroid insecticides are approved for use on ITNs. These insecticides have proved to pose very low health risks to humans and other mammals, but are toxic to insects, even at very low doses. • Never visit a malaria area without taking precautions because your friend says there is no need to do so. Just because they say so does not make it true. • Wristbands according to laboratory studies on 16 subjects have shown to give no protection. DEET (N-Diethyl-meta-toluamide) products, however, were shown to disorientate the mosquitoes for up to 302 minutes. Citronella products gave protection for 20 minutes before reapplication had to take place. • Keep DEET containing repellents away from plastics including cameras and spectacle frames as it will dissolve them. • You cannot contract malaria from someone else. Be aware of risks, minimise exposure to mosquito bites, take prophylactic drugs if indicated and seek early diagnosis and treatment if you suspect you may have malaria.     