For the bathroom challenge the Duos mentor is Karen Marsden, of Karen Marsden Interiors, a well-known South African interior designer whose work has featured on South Africa’s favourite lifestyle magazine show – Top Billing as well as VISI magazine. Her role is to guide our Duos with their budget and design choices and stress the importance of keeping on deadline for this very demanding challenge. From visits to Caesarstone to select top quality quartz countertops and Weylandts to select luxury accessories for their bathrooms the Duos raced against the clock to get everything they needed. As per previous challenges the Duos also needed to collaborate with local designers for key custom pieces. Team Contrast Control met with Cara Saven of Cara Saven Wall, to get some custom designed wallpaper made for their bathroom. Team R&K teamed up with Emma de Crespigny, of The New Modernist. Emma deals in mid-century decor and also reproduces furniture and lighting. For Rekopile and Koketso she will be creating an up-cycled cupboard. With the hope to create a design piece that speaks to their love of nature & permaculture, Team Perma Peeps chose  to collaborate with Sue Kingma, owner of Nuno Indoor Plants, who will be assisting with some unique moss ball plants for their bathroom. With big ideas but not much time, will our Duos be able to pull of their grand designs within the declines or will the judges be faced with incomplete bathrooms on judgement day? It’s sink or swim for the Duos! Tune in to Win a Home this Thursday at 7:30PM on SABC 3 for all the drama & inspiration. Remember to visit the Private Property website to vote for your favourite Design Duo and to enter both the weekly and Grand Prize competitions. This week you stand the chance of winning a R5 000 Weylandts voucher, a Meir designer shower head valued at R6 000 or a R2 000 Carrol Boyes voucher. You also stand the chance of winning Samsung Gear IconX wireless earbuds valued at R3 300 and if you are a Capitec client you could also win an additional R5 000 cash – just for being a client. Enter here!