 Triumph launched the Bobber in South Africa last year. Unfortunately all the models imported were spoken for and none made it into the press fleet, so I never got to ride it. This year, when Triumph introduced their new models here in South Africa, I finally got to ride the Bobber.  They also had the updated Bobber Black available for us to sample – the focus of this review. At first glance, the two bikes look the same, except for the Bobber’s chrome bits being matt black on the alternative. On closer inspection though, the differences go much deeper than a lick of paint. The entire front end looks different. The Black has a 16″ rim, down from the standard’s 19″. The rubber is a lot fatter too.  Interestingly, the rolling circumference of the two tires are virtually the same, so the steering geometry stayed the same. Where the Bobber had one disk, the Black has two. They are ABS-assisted and grabbed by Brembo calipers. The extra forces at play on the front meant that the front fork also had to grow.  The 41mm KYB shocks made way for 47mm Showa units. Above the new front wheel there is a striking new daytime running light. The dash stayed unchanged and is a study in simplicity. The Black now also comes with cruise control, which is a particularly easy system to operate. When I climbed aboard the Bobber it was all that I envisaged it to be.  You sit low on a well-crafted seat, but your feet are not way forward. The straight handlebars have bar-end mirrors and your whole posture on the bike gives you the sensation of being a rebel, riding from town to town with no destination in mind. The towns must just not be too far apart though, as the nine-litre tank is tiny and fuel stops will be done with short intervals. The fatter front tyre does make the bike slightly sluggish to turn, but there is some strange appeal to it, muscling the Bobber into a corner.  Once it has settled on a line, the bike felt extremely planted. This bike is more than just some attempt to grab a niche market. It is a fantastic bike with a delightful growl emanating from those two stocky pipes. Although the overall look is not to everyone’s liking, it did attract attention wherever it was parked. If I did not have to give it back, I would easily continue to ride with it, day in and day out. I don’t think I will ever tire of the Bobber Black.