 BARBERTON – With the efficient services it renders to the local community, MEC for health, Sasekani Manzini, said the Barberton General Hospital was an exemplary benchmark for others in the province. Manzini shared these sentiments during the open day held at Barberton General on Thursday. The day also incorporated the Thuma Mina (Send Me) campaign launched by president Cyril Ramaphosa. It is focused on improving service delivery and getting community members involved in bettering their own lives. “This is one hospital that has not given me any sleepless nights. Many in the province are full of problems. I receive complaints about them everyday. Barberton is the best. I think other hospital CEOs must come and take notes of what is happening here, instead of going outside the province,” said Manzini. She attributed the excellent service to the on-hand board, dedicated staff and responsive community members. “The hospital board here minimises the problems for us a province. Also, the good working relationship between the hospital, clinics and community members complement the good work of the hospital. Remember, the hospital is not for government, it is for the community. The good work that we are doing here must be complemented by the community we serve. I’m here today to appreciate all that you are doing.” Read More: MEC of Health and Public Works switched Manzini and her entourage – which included hospital CEO Matlape Mawele, Cllr Vusi Mkhatshwa, leaders of government businesses in the City of Mbombela Local Municipality, councillors and community members – kickstarted the day by painting a post-neonatal ward. Mawele said the aim of the event was to have open interaction with the community members they served, offer services they are rendering and speak with the public about what needs to be improved. She said she was happy that incidents of gangsters harassing their personnel had decreased. All the sections within the department had their tent set up outside the premises, for all community members to access their services. Among them were radiology, dental, revenue and debt management, mental and psychology. Nomsa Mlambo was grateful that her visit to the open day also meant she received free spectacles. “My eyes have been giving me problems for a long time. I was also struggling to read the Bible for so long now, and even sewing became difficult. These glasses will come in handy for me,” she said.