 Living in Mbombela is probably like living in Cape Town or Durban. Every holiday, family would come visit us, excited to visit the tourist attractions. My parents would entertain them and take them on day trips to the Kruger and all the places the family liked. My personal favourite destination was Pilgrim’s Rest. The old candy shop with the crystalised coloured sugar was the ultimate! Can you remember? White sherbet that makes your mouth and your fingers red and a bag of black balls were compulsory – the latter renamed in the 1980s due to its offensive name.  Little dolls and animals were also sold. I remember my collection of dolls dressed in beads. Did you know, Pilgrim’s Rest received a hydro power station in 1896? In 1911 Belvedere was constructed to replace the smaller hydro. You will see the shadow of Belvedere on this route. I recall the excitement before a trip to Pilgrim’s. We would pack the picnic baskets and swimming suits for our visit to the caravan park.  I am filled with anticipation just thinking about those years. It was awesome! The caravan park is abandoned now, but worth a visit. The roadtrip includes cool places like Pilgrim’s Rest, Potholes, and much more! Now that I have your attention… Start your trip by filling your fuel tank and getting your cash ready. Take any route to Sabie, the beautiful 2012 Town of the Year. Don’t forget to stop at Bridal Veil Falls and Lone Creek Falls though. From Sabie, ride towards Graskop on the R532.  Pass Mac Mac Forest Retreat (on your left). Feel free to visit the Maria Shires Waterfall at 24º 58.660’S 30º 49.353’E. Go slow, because your turn-off would be 2,3km from the falls. Turn left at 24°58’11.4”S 30°48’18.4”E onto the gravel road. NB: life begins where the tar road ends! Keep an eye out for trucks and forestry vehicles. Continue straight until you reach 24°57’56.5”S 30°47’34.9”E. These caves have been a place of safety for many, many years… My very clever friend Marius Bakkes recently told me. At this rocky refuge, a young Percy Fitzpatrick found shelter there on cold and rainy nights.  This pass is called the Burgers Pass. When you pass those massive trees and mountains, remember that not so long ago, our fathers travelled these areas with ox wagons and on horseback. Continue on this road until you reach the Mount Sheba Conservancy board, then keep right. This is not that type of open-throttlepower-wheelie-drift route. No, this is the look-at-that-tree kind of route! In this area, you find out how small you really are, and how beautiful everything around you is! You realise that life is bigger than an office, or a workshop. The rocks, the trees, the mountains.. You, my friend, were born to be a pioneer!  At one stage, you will cross a small bridge and continue through a lane of large, old trees. This is a magical place. The maple tree is a special tree: it signifies strength and endurance. These trees resemble exactly that within you! Spend some time there, take it in. Strength and endurance! Your next intersection is at the old school. This is where young minds are shaped into young Einsteins. Turn right towards Pilgrim’s Rest.  The coordinates of this position are 24°56’44.7”S 30°44’43.9”E. According to Google Maps, from here to Pilgrim’s is 9,2km and a 18-minute ride. Enjoy this quiant little town to the fullest. Take a walk through it and don’t miss a thing. Ask for Uncle Johnny, he is a Pilgrim’s Rest legend! When your Pilgrim’s pilgrimage is over, answer to the call of the gravel road. Proceed across Joubert Bridge, named after the Mine Commissioner in the 1890s. This bridge was built in 1896/7. The tar road ends, and Vaalhoek starts  Vaalhoek used to be a farm that belonged to the well-known Barloworld. Many proud Lowvelders spent time on these grounds! Enjoy this beautiful gravel road that passes the old fish farm, old houses and much more! This road is filled with old ruins of old farm houses that date back to the days of ox wagons and gunpowder. Notice the old power lines along the way. These lines lead to the hydro power plant, Belvedere.  It was completed in 1911 and supplied electricity to Pilgrims Rest and eventually to the grid. Pilgrims was one of the first towns in the world to have electric streetlights! South Africa was enjoying front-row seats with development and technology! This road will join onto the R532, where the Potholes would be towards the left, and Graskop towards your right. Towards the right, is where you want to have lunch every day of the week; Potluck Boskombuis. This has a short dirt road towards a magnificent view. The restaurant is based on the Treur River. This is African cuisine! Potjiekos? Steaks? They have it on the menu. A personal favourite is the neglected and partly abandoned Bourke’s Luck Army Base.  Parts of the base are utilised as a clinic, but the rest is ready to be explored. I can almost feel the energy and testosterone in the air when I am there. I can picture hundreds of energetic young men in brown army wear, being trained to be vigilant young protectors of our beautiful country, South Africa. As I turn my KTM’s key, I realise that these areas were part of the backbone of our country.  Continue towards Graskop. The waterfalls on this route are spectacular! You will pass the Lisbon Falls (with a short, easily-accessible trail to the pool of the falls), Berlin Falls, a left turn leads to God’s Window and the Pinnacle Rock and much more. Many hidden treasures await the adventurer who wants to see more! Don’t miss the Flycatcher Castle on the right, just before Graskop. This beautiful country has a rich history, and a very rich future. Each one is responsible for making sure, our future and the future of our children is one of growth and success, in every aspect of life! 