 A case of assault and another of intimidation has been opened against City of Mbombela Local Municipality Ward 45 councillor, Lifa Sithole of the ANC. The alleged assault took place at Extension 11 last Tuesday. “I can confirm that a case of common assault and intimidation has been opened (against Sithole). No arrest has been made but police are investigating both cases,” said police spokesman, Capt Jabu Ndubane. Sithole denied all the allegations. Lowvelder learned that the case of intimidation was opened by a local community activist, Gift Mangaliso Nkosi while that of common assault was opened by Innocent “Mgababa” Malibe. Malibe is Sithole’s neighbour. According to Nkosi, he received a call from Sithole on Monday, threatening to
kill him. “I fear for my life. Since I received that call I have not been sleeping at home. I’m in hiding as we speak. I’m not even reporting for duty. He (Sithole) told me that he has bought a gun and was ready for war. Even though I have opened a case with the police, nothing has been done to date. I only received the case number confirming that a case was opened.” Nkosi asked Sithole to assist them to trace criminals who were behind house break-ins that have recenty been on the rise in the area. “Last week, there was a break-in at my house. They stole my clothes and shoes. I then received a tip-off that there was a stranger roaming the area who stays at Sithole’s house. That stranger was linked to all these break-ins. We then as community members gathered and took a decision to go and inform Sithole (as he is our community leader) about the rise of break-ins since he housed the alleged criminal. “To our surprise, Sithole became aggressive when we approached him and he personally told me that I must not come to his residence to tell him nonsense.” Nkosi said he was also surprised that Sithole protected the alleged criminal, because he had also stolen from him.
“That alleged criminal had stolen his laptop. Fortunately he discovered it after he confessed to stealing it, admitting where he had hidden it. Read More: Love lost for Barberton councillor Mandla Mamba “For us as community members, all we wanted was Sithole to hand over the criminal to us so that he can go and show us where he has hidden the stolen items. To date, I have not recovered the items.” According to Nkosi, Sithole had then taken the suspect back to Emahlahleni where he is originally from. Malibe opened the common assault case after Sithole allegedly assaulted him for being part of community members who held an imbizo on Saturday at Ka-Kokoperi open ground. The imbizo was aimed at finding ways to curb crime in the area. Sithole said he did not intimidate or assault anyone. “These are baseless allegations levelled against me. The boy who is accused of stealing their items had actually stole mine. He stole my laptop and some items. He went to show me where he had hidden the items and I recovered them. I then chased him away and have withdrawn the case that I opened. “For the intimidation allegations, they (group of community members) came to my house and intimidated me. I was supposed to open the case because they came at night and threatened me,” said Sithole. This councillor took the reins in Ward 45 in April last year. Sithole replaced the controversial Mandla Mamba, who is currently behind bars, awaiting trial on charges fraud and attempted murder.