We sit back and look at our youngsters and believe that with this much power and technology they will all go to university and become doctors and lawyers. We make ourselves believe that our youth will be fine with all the tools we gave them. This might not always be the case. Most of the time when young adults complete high school, they have no idea what to do with their lives. They are all so social on the smart devices, but have no idea how to take the next step into the adult world. What to study and where to go? The time has arrived to leave your school days behind and get on with the future. As easy as this may be for some, for others it is stressful and daunting.  A number of students know precisely what to do after school and have their career paths all mapped out. Others are battling to make a decision and feel pressured by parents and friends. Most parents would hit the roof at the idea of their child “wasting” a year, but it does not have to be wasted.  At ATTI Nelspruit you can walk in to get individual attention from one of our student councilors who can listen, understand and guide you through the many different choices that can be just as successful and lucrative as any university degree. That age-old saying, “follow your dreams”, has stuck around for a reason. A great deal of students enter into a study course because their parents have pushed them towards a certain career path, or they have decided to study one thing and after a year realised that their passion lies elsewhere.  Many young adults feel they have to see things through due to financial issues or fear of disappointing others, but this should not be the deciding factor. At ATTI Nelspruit we offer numerous shorter qualifications, and in the end you can still achieve your dreams and sometimes, even in less time. Contact us for affordable monthly repayment plans on your selected course. Choose between shorter provider skills programmes like executive secretary, office administrative assistant, PC technician, network technician and web design. We also offer international vendor specificprogrammes such as Microsoft Office Specialist, Microsoft Certified Professional, MCSA Certifications, MCSD Certifications and Microsoft Technology Associate Certification. All of these certifications are well known and sought-after careers in
many information technology companies throughout the world.  The list of vendors are endless and does not stop with Microsoft. CompTIA is also a force to be reckoned with and offers A+, Network+, Security+, Cloud+ and PenTest+ to name just a few. ATTI Nelspruit is also a registered Cisco Academy and offers most of the Cisco Certifications on campus. Why not broaden your horizons in the information technology field and come talk to our highly dedicated staff to guide you through life’s hard choices. Your siblings and friends may have decided on their careers, but you don’t have to right away. You are at the point in your life where you have the power to affect your entire future.  Make the decision about what to do after school for yourself, as you will most likely have to spend many years in this position. ATTI Nelspruit is also registered with the Department of Higher Education and we  strive to deliver quality further education training to make you as successful in life as possible. Once you have made a choice and set up a plan of action for your future, stick to it. The choices you make about your life after high school do in fact affect the rest of your life, and you are the master of your own destiny. When you have chosen your path, commit yourself to making a success of it. We hope these tips have aided you with the countless decisions that you are being faced with at this slightly scary, but very exciting time. Good luck and enjoy the life you choose to lead – we hope that ATTI Nelspruit will help you to achieve your dreams!   