 Groupe PSA won the 2019 International Van of the Year (Ivoty) Award for its new generation C-vans. The new Peugeot Partner Van was designed as part of a crossbusiness programme in which services were systematically tailored as closely as possible to the needs of B-to-B customers in terms of convenience, driving assistance systems and safety. For Jarlath Sweeney, chairman of the Ivoty jury, the new line-up is “the most significant small panel van development in years”. Commenting on the jury’s decision, he added, “The common programme to the four brands of Groupe PSA, the Peugeot partner, Citroën Berlingo van, Opel Combo and Vauxhall Combo, bodes well for the future, packed with technological advancements to aid the driver and financially benefit the owner or fleet manager. The creation of the overload alert system is a great initiative as it will ensure compliance and enhance safety. All in all, it’s an excellent package, well put together.” The new models were developed using the EMP2 platform and accommodate the latest generation of power trains and driver assistance equipment.  With each generation, Groupe PSA has brought useful and major innovations to the segment, now proposing two technologies that are unique on the market: the overload indicator and surround rear vision. The new Peugeot partner panel van will be introduced to South African consumers in the second quarter of 2019. With this new offering, Groupe PSA intends to consolidate its leading position in the commercial vehicle market. “Groupe PSA is very proud to receive this prestigious international award, which comes in recognition of our expertise and the positioning of our lineup as the best on the market.  With this New generation C-vans awarded the 2019 Ivoty Groupe PSA is very proud to receive this prestigious international award new generation of compact vans, we have reached a critical new milestone in the renewal of our B-to-B range, in line with our ambitions for commercial vehicles as part of the Push to Pass strategic plan,” said Carlos Tavares, chairman of the Groupe PSA managing board. The International Van of the Year Award was launched in 1992. The jury brings together 25 journalists and publishers from independent magazines specialising in light commercial vehicles.