 It is not clear what the motives were, but investigations are underway to track down the individual(s) who set the speed cameras on the R40 alight. The speed camera is usually used to address challenges posed by moving violations particularly speeding that contributes to most crashes taking place on R40 Road. With the particular camera that was burned, the department has brought to book 17 541 speeding motorists. This clearly indicates the need for such a fixed camera. This weekend alone four people perished on R40 Road Mbombela and Barberton. Eight people killed in vehicle accidents this weekend Therefore such devices contribute massively to road safety because errant motorists are arrested and messages are sent to would be offenders that government is intolerant of reckless driving. Mpumalanga Community Safety and Security MEC, Pat Ngomane has called on law enforcement officers not to be deterred but to instead continue working hard to bring speedsters to book. “It was highly regrettable that people destroy infrastructure that could save other people’s lives. Nobody has a right to destroy our cameras, instead people should comply with traffic regulations and assist government to bring down crashes,” Ngomane said. He has called on the police to promptly bring to book whoever is responsible for such anarchical behaviour. He also implored on members of the public who may know what happened to come forward and assist the police with any information that may lead to the arrest and subsequent conviction of the suspect(s). MEC Ngomane has however warned the road users to obey the rules of the road whether there are cameras on the road or they see traffic law enforcement officers or not. 10:00 – October 16:  Speed cameras set alight on the R40 – Mpumalanga News One of the two speed cameras erected on the sides of the R40 road between Rocky’s Drift and White River was bombed last night. A traffic officer found on the scene this morning says the camera was petrol bombed as an empty bottle and screw drivers were found lying nearby. He said that a case of malicious damage to property was reported at the White River police station. Eye witnesses also sent pictures of another container of petrol and two toolbars which were found lying next to the second camera on the other side of the road. VIDEO: Nyala taken down by leopard at five star lodge Rhino poaching task force afraid as bail application continues