 Improvements in engine technology have seen the average fuel consumption of passenger cars decrease from over 10 litres per 100km in 1980 to less than 6 litres in the case of many of the latest high-technology, highly fuel-efficient models.  In addition to zero emissions and zero fuel consumption, electric vehicles as well as fuel-efficient hybrid vehicles – many new models currently available in South Africa – offer substantial fuel consumption benefits. ALSO READ: Lowvelders’ fuel price also to increase The latest generation diesel vehicles, while offering all the refinements and performance of their petrol-engined counterparts, also offer significant fuel economy benefits. Factors such as driving style, vehicle loading, tyre pressures and road conditions continue to affect real fuel consumption. • Measure the fuel consumption of your vehicle and consider replacing your vehicle with a more modern, high technology, fuel-efficient product. • Avoid unnecessary journeys/plan your journey. • Service your car according to the manufacturer’s recommended schedule; poor maintenance can significantly increase fuel consumption. • Check tyre pressure regularly; low tyre pressures increase vehicle “drag” and hence fuel consumption.  • Drive smoothly; in the case of manual transmission vehicles, change up as soon as engine speed and conditions allow. • Moderate your speed; fuel consumption increases significantly when driving at speeds over 100kmh – it can be as much as 20%.• Reduce weight in the car by removing heavy items if you are not using them, like the roof rack. ALSO READ: How is the price of fuel determined? These are the fuel pricing dynamics you need to know • Use only quality, clean fuels; the use of contaminated fuels can result in fuel-injection equipment deterioration and increased fuel consumption. • Avoid travelling during peak hours; optimum fuel economy is achieved during steady constant speed driving. Stop-start driving significantly increases fuel consumption. • Use air-conditioning sparingly. Vehicle manufacturers worldwide are committed to providing safer, high-tech, environmentally friendly and highly fuel-efficient new products. Source: Naamsa