Dr André Hollmann, a GP with a practice at Nelmed Medicross, says regular check-ups with your doctor have a legion of benefits. Are you feeling different? Feeling weak or generally tired or sometimes light-headed? Have you suddenly, seemingly inexplicably, gained or lost a significant amount of weight? Noticed any changes in your skin markings recently? It is time to pay your doctor a visit. Small emergencies, such as dog bites and the need for stitches, can also be treated by your GP. Regular check-ups while taking prescribed medication for established conditions, such as high blood pressure, help your doctor determine whether the medication is working and helps him to manage it better and to assess for possible complications of the condition. “Drink your medication – as prescribed,” Hollmann adds. “And always finish your course of antibiotics.”  Your GP will test your blood pressure, urine, blood sugar, generally do a smear for women and mammogram for older women and PSA tests on men as required. The tests serve to determine your general health. He/she will also check out any specific complaints you have. “There aren’t really any irrelevant complaints or worries,” Hollmann says. Moreover, a GP who knows your medical history is more likely to recognise small but important variations, such as a sudden spike in your sugar levels or blood pressure, which could be indicative of a problem. The older one gets, the more important it becomes to have annual check-ups. Should something be amiss, your doctor will refer you to a specialist.  Having a written-up medical history is also useful when taking out new insurance, or when you claim from your insurance for, for instance, a dreaded disease. Where you have a known family history of something such as diabetes, breast cancer or heart disease, it is advisable that you keep an eye on it to ensure you are safe. “Where prevention fails, early detection saves lives,” Hollmann says. Most of the doctors practicing at Nelmed Medicross have had their rooms there since the centre’s inception 21 years ago, on December 1, 1997. Currently there are nine full partners and an assistant in the association.       