 Mazda constantly endeavours to create an emotional connection between the driver and the car with the aim to invigorate both body and spirit through the joy of driving. This connection is referred to as “jinba ittai.”Jinba-Ittai or “rider and horse as one body” is the Japanese term which describes the harmony between a horse and rider.  It underpins the core of the brand and is at the heart of Mazda’s human-centric philosophy. The philosophy starts with the driver and develops every aspect of the vehicle to deliver the best possible experience to the driver and occupants. This quest to deliver Jinba-Ittai in every model is what makes Mazda unique. ALSO READ: Take the risk out of buying a second-hand car Mazda’s objective when building vehicles is to eliminate all non-essential elements to create a vehicle with deliberate and functional components focusing on the purity of simple form. The result is beautifully designed vehicles that showcase Mazda’s KODO – “Soul of Motion” design language, which expresses a strong sense of vitality and agility.  KODO is inspired by efficient yet beautiful muscle movements that radiate great energy to push the vehicle appearance to new levels of design. The brand’s never-ending pursuit of enhancement has brought SkyActive Technology, a series of technologies that integrate control of the engine, transmission, chassis and body to improve performance and fuel efficiency for an exceptional ride that feels like has been crafted just for the driver. ALSO READ: Mazda CX-3 releases interior and exterior updates Available in both automatic and manual transmissions, all models are dressed in Mazda’s award-winning KODO designs, conveying strength, stability and good times behind the wheel. The current vehicle generation line-up of power trains and platforms take a decidedly unconventional approach to enhancing performance.  The Mazda range is designed and built to the highest standard of performance and reliability. This standard is backed up by a three-year unlimited-kilometre service plan. To provide complete peace of mind motoring, a three-year factory warranty, a three-year roadside assistance and a five-year corrosion warranty are also included.