Hands down, entertainment is the number-one reason why the entire world watches movies. Be it action, comedy, drama, horror or sci-fi, films are a form of leisure and amusement for every individual. The greatest benefit of watching movies is that it entertains you.  One of the most important benefits has to be its role as a stress buster. You don’t need to pay a shrink to tell you to go watch your favourite movies or the latest releases, a good movie outing with friends or just one in the comforts of your home can work just as well. Whatever the genre, as long as you enjoy it, a movie elevates your senses and refreshes you.  Another benefit is that it inspires you. Biopic and movies on historical figures often give you a glimpse into the simple truths of life as you experience the transformation of ordinary men and women into heroes in times of needs by looking at life from a different perspective. You realise that regular people like you and I are also capable of great things in life.  Are you in dire need of some excitement or thrills? Your boss isn’t sanctioning that long overdue leave of yours and it’s been ages since you have been outdoors. What do you do? Do you wait for the ever-evading holidays to have an exhilarating experience or do you do something about it? There are countless films to take you through spine-tingling excitement till you actually find time for some actual RnR.  Perhaps you held your partner’s hand in public when you went to see a movie with them. Perhaps it was also the first time you kissed them. A cinema is where you are not judged for going out together; or you are not looked at with skepticism.  Do you remember the last time you laughed your heart out while watching a movie? Well that’s what a good comedy does to you. It is as much a way to lighten the mood as it is a way to bond.  It may sound clichéd though but hey, it isn’t clichéd for nothing! It has been proven time and again that watching your favourite romantic movies with your favourite snacks is a great way to get over your broken heart. You must have seen such scenes over and over again in films and you know it’s indeed true! It takes your mind off him/her, you sob in the beginning but gradually the movie is able to heal you and you are ready for another shot at love.   This content was sponsored by:  