 MATSULU – The man accused of allegedly causing the accident which resulted in the death of 15 people on Friday was charged with culpable homicide and driving under the influence of alcohol. He allegedly fears for his life in the community. Moses Makamo (34) appeared in the Matsulu Magistrate’s Court yesterday. He was granted bail of R2 000. He resides in Matsulu. His legal representative argued intensely that his client not be photographed, as they believed his safety was in jeopardy. Driving under the influence a big contributor to 13 accidents in three days According to Joseph Mabuza, spokesman for DCSSL, it is believed that Makamo caused the horrific accident on the N4 near Matsulu when he attempted to overtake a truck with his Volkswagen Polo, driving in the direction of Malalane.  Spokesman for TRAC, Solange Soares-Nicholson explained that he failed to finish the manoeuvre and tried to get back into his lane. He side-swiped the truck and lost control of his vehicle.  The truck carried on driving, but a midibus taxi driving behind the Polo swerved to avoid it – into oncoming traffic. It hit a truck head-on. The two vehicles came to a standstill bent into each other, on the side railing next to the road.
The Polo hit another oncoming truck, which jackknifed. Fourteen people in the taxi died on the scene. Eight taxi passengers and the driver of the truck which collided with the taxi were treated on the scene and rushed to Kiaat and Rob Ferreira hospitals in Mbombela. Eleven bodies were trapped inside the taxi and emergency workers battled for hours to free them from the wreckage, using the Jaws of Life and a large tow truck required to pull the wreckage apart to allow the fire brigade to reach some of the bodies. It resulted in a heavy traffic blockage, as both double carriageways had to be completely closed for periods of time. The scene was eventually cleared at around 03:00. One of the patients died in hospital early the following morning, to bring the death toll to 15. One patient was discharged on Monday.  Makamo was arrested on the scene and taken to hospital to have his blood drawn. He spent the weekend in custody.
The MEC for community safety, security and liaison, Pat Ngomane, met with some of the deceased’s families in Tonga on Sunday. Twelve of the victims hailed from Nkomazi. Their families were encouraged to identify their belongings at the police station. Their post-mortems were to start on Monday. The taxi driver was from Bushbuckridge, and another passenger was from Middelburg. The 15th victim has not been identified. The victims’ names had not been released to the media at the time of going to press. Representatives of all 12 Nkomazi victims attended the meeting with Ngomane, who was joined by the Nkomazi mayor Cllr Johan Mkhatshwa and representatives from the Department of Social Development and SAPS.
The MEC expressed his grief over the accident and stated that the whole country, not just Mpumalanga, is in mourning over the deaths. He suggested that the families consider having a joint memorial service and funeral, with which the government would assist. Crash investigation teams have already started with the investigations. Ngomane wished those who were injured a swift recovery. Makamo will reappear in the same court on November 29. A task team has been set up to assist and support the affected families. It comprises of officials from Department of Community Safety Security and Liaison, Social Development, Road accident Fund, Nkomazi Local Municipality, Ehlanzeni Taxi Council and members of the community . Six of the people who were critically injured have since been discharged. Another person is still in ICU at Robs Ferreira Hospital. Driver arrested after 15 people die in horror N4 crash 