 The second-generation Toyota Aygo debuted in 2015, with a highly expressive design incorporating a strong X-motif across the front grille section and X-inspired design themes throughout. But for 2018, the bold super-mini has gone under the proverbial surgeon’s knife and emerged with a fresh new design that simultaneously pays homage to the original X-motif and provides a rejuvenated appearance. The standout feature of the facelifted Aygo are the new larger projector headlamps, incorporating prominent LED daytime running lights (DRL) which utilise a light guide to trace the inner border of the headlamp housing. These stylised headlamps now form a point of parity with its larger C-HR sibling. The X-motif is retained, with strong contour lines framing the large trapezoidal air dam, intersected by a large Toyota insignia in the centre.  A black lower apron adds depth to the bold front facade. The interior design keeps up the fun factor, with one-piece, moulded, front bucket seats, multi-tone fabric trim, visible exterior colour panels and orange-hued illumination. A leather-trimmed steering wheel and gear lever add a pleasing tactile touch point. Aygo continues to offer a high level of standard specification, which includes a touchscreen audio system with USB, auxiliary and Bluetooth functionality, steering switch operation and on-board computer.  The audio system also features smartphone connectivity via the USB port. The usual fare of power windows, remote central locking, power-adjustable side mirrors, air conditioning and 12-volt accessory connector are provided. The distinctive, stacked instrument cluster includes a circular multi-information display, housed within the large and easy-to-read speedometer.  A tachometer and shift indicator flank the multi-dimensional gauge layout. All Aygo derivatives are now equipped with vehicle stability control and hill assist control, which join the ABS and brake assist functions – as part of Toyota’s continued vehicle safety strategy. Passive safety items include front and side airbags, ISOFIX provisions and three-point seatbelts with force limiter and pretensioners. The thermally efficient, award-winning 998cc three-cylinder engine has been tweaked to provide an additional 2kW, bringing the power output to 53kW and 93Nm – while fuel consumption has been lowered to a sparing 4,3litres/100km. The CO2 output figure has also been reduced to 97g/km. Improvements to the noise, vibration and harshness performance have also been made.  Three distinct variants of Aygo are offered, each with its own target market. The X-Play version ups the ante with a striking bi-tone design, available as either X-Play Black or X-Play Silver. Both standard and X-Play models ride on 14-inch wheels shod with 165-65R14 tyres. The flagship X-Cite model is aimed at expressive customers seeking even more street cred. A power-retractable black canvas “funroof” allows occupants to experience open air motoring at the touch of a button. The X-Cite model maximises its visual appeal with diamond shaped 15-inch alloy wheels, fitted with 165- 60R15 tyres