 BARBERTON – Laboratory results will have to determine whether a man who was arrested for allegedly stealing seven pigs from the Barberton Department of Correctional Services (DCS) will be charged or not. According to Mesiah Hlungwani, DCS spokesman, the case against the suspect was removed from the roll by the Barberton Magistrate’s Court, pending investigations and laboratory results. According to Sgt Mandla Thwala, who is investigating the matter, the pig meat that was confiscated from the suspect was sent to the laboratory for forensic tests. He confirmed that pending the results, the matter had been taken off the roll. Since the beginning of this year, farms of DCS have been experiencing theft of livestock and vegetables. Hlungwani said since January, one cow, vegetables and 15 pigs have been stolen. He said this has became a worrying factor to the department. “This escalated last month when seven pigs were stolen at once from the pigsty of the DCS. This incident made the department launch an investigation which led to the arrest of a community member,” said Hlungwani. He said according to the officer who was on duty on the night, a massive noise was heard from the pigsty where more than 500 pigs are kept. READ MORE: Community given land He said the officer went to investigate and discovered a carcass in a pool of blood and one All-Star sneaker in the pigsty. “In the early hours of that day, the pigs were counted and it was discovered that seven were missing. A thorough investigation was conducted in partnership with Barberton SAPS. DCS officers were deployed to continue with investigations around the surrounding communities of Emjindini. “Community members in Extension 13 were questioned. Some indicated that there was a resident who was selling pork at night. This led correctional officers and the SAPS to the house of the suspect. He was caught red-handed with pork bearing the marks of the DCS. The meat was immediately confiscated and the suspect was arrested,” added Hlungwani. The man was charged with theft of livestock and possession of stolen property.