 MBOMBELA – John was shot and killed on his farm on the Rest Road last Tuesday in a botched armed robbery. Bradley Steyn, who lives in California, USA, made a video 75 hours after John’s death.
“My brother-in-law was brutally murdered in his farmhouse 72 hours ago while putting up a brave fight to protect my sister. They shot him for a few electronics and for pure farm intimidation.” Steyn then broke down and cried during the filming. He said that crime in South Africa was out of control. “This is really happening in South Africa. Crime is out of control. People cannot even have their basic human right in the country at the moment and that is safety.” He urged people to not just sympathise with the family about their loss, but to go to their local councillors all over the world and urge them to put pressure on the South African government to deal with crime. “They have no control.”
Bradley was a spy for the ANC during the apartheid regime. He was briefly involved within the security infrastructure of the National Party government. Later, he joined the anti-apartheid underground movement as a deep-cover operative within Nelson Mandela’s ANC. This being MK Umkhonto we Sizwe under the DIS (Department of Intelligence and Security Command). Bradley is to launch his new book, Undercover with Mandela’s Spies, The Story of the Boy that Crossed the Square next year. ALSO READ: BREAKING NEWS: Fetus found by dog in Mbombela Three unknown armed men entered John’s house at around 22:00. He was busy watching television at the time and his wife Leigh was in the bedroom. He warned her to lock the door and hit the panic button. The men had pulled out a knife and a gun and a scuffle ensued. Two shots went off and one hit him in the chest. There were knife marks on his hands and arms. The men fled the scene when Hi-Tech Security officers arrived. A week before the attack, Bloomberg Global Business Forum in New York interviewed Cyril Ramaphosa on television where he said that there were “no killings of white farmers in South Africa”. The comment came after reaction to President Donald Trump’s recent tweet in which he addressed the “large-scale killing of farmers” and land seizures. Criticism from some quarters stated that Ramaphosa was lying, and that white farmers were in fact being killed. Especially after police minister Bheki Cele released statistics in May on farm attacks and murders dating back to 2012, which showed that while attacks had increased, the number of murders reported decreased year on year. The figures showed that over the past six years, since 2012, there were a total of
3 059 attacks reported to police, averaging 510 a year in which 338 people – roughly 56 a year – were killed. CNN later also reported on Trump’s tweet. They reported that there was not a large-scale killing of farmers and stated that farm murders were at an all-time low. They also questioned why Trump would only be worried about white farmers in Africa. Bossies Community Justice’s (BCJ) Albert Gryvenstein stated that police also could not keep an accurate account of farm attacks as they recorded them as home invasions.
“They will say it was a house robbery and murder, like in John’s case. They have no record to put it down as a farm attack.” He also stated that when looking at the numbers, most politicians were overlooking the horrendous brutality of the killings happening on the farms. “It is all fine to say only 47 people died last year in farm attacks, but CNN does not disclose how brutally they were tortured to death. This they do not tell the world.” He said BCJ had made up to R50 000 available as a reward for information leading to the successful prosecution of John’s killers. This after police and Gryvenstein confirmed that there had been no arrests as yet. If anyone has any information regarding the murder contact BCJ on 082-567-5212.