 Autodealer Lowveld readers are, I think, acutely aware of the local series of the eV Challenge (electric vehicle) for schools. We are stern supporters of this initiative and with the help of some of our friends within the industry, it was possible to create and package an unforgettable experience for the winners of the 2018 series of the eV Challenge.  They got to visit the Sci-Bono exhibition in JHB as well as the Nissan factory in Rosslyn Pretoria. And this is where I stop talking (writing) because the feedback from the kids is much more important than anything I have to say. Enjoy… Michelle Parkes – parent and guardian on the trip: It was truly an honour to have had this opportunity to gain knowledge, learn new things and experience the world of science and motoring alongside these amazing young adults.  Watching them absorb everything was just so rewarding. We were very thankful and blessed to have had such great people taking care of us. A large thank you to Citybug for trusting our lives with our driver Christo. We could not have asked for anyone better to take us to our destinations and bring us home safely.  When we arrived at the Sci-Bono centre we received friendly smiles and helpful people. Bryceland, our tour guide, was wonderful, very informative and knowledgeable. Watching the children learn and figure out puzzles was so amazing. Then also a very big thank you to the amazing people at Tsogo Sun Stay Easy Hotel. They were waiting for us – knew who we were – we felt like VIPs! After a good night’s rest and a filling breakfast the next morning, we set out to Nissan.  Wow, what an experience. Nigel was an awesome presenter for Nissan, with bounds of knowledge and facts that knew no end. Taking pride in his company and their product with very good reason. Once again, we were treated like royalty. We would like to thank all the amazing people at Nissan, Nigel, Tanya and Janus, who made the trip unforgettable.  Then to crown an already awesome experience, we all got to see (and for the children, sit in) a Nissan Leaf race car. Really, this was amazing! We really and truly could not have asked for more (well maybe next time a GT-R as the kids would say). Thank you to every sponsor and person involved, we are grateful beyond what words can express.  Paris Nzima: “I want to tell the story about what we have experienced in Pretoria. This was truly and amazing experience. The Nissan factory, considering my interest in cars and manufacturing, was an inspiration. I will work hard, learn and study so as to, one day, own a dealership.”  Chauke Capphuis: “We learned so much – I don’t know where to start. It was all about science, cars; the how tos and the what nots and I am thinking how to improve the steering on our eV Challenge cars; the impact of electromagnetics and technology; how all of this will influence and determine future cars.” Osborne Mkanfe: “I have learned a lot about many things – my mind is still racing to find a focus point though – it is somewhat overwhelming!  But one thing I am certain of is this, I am so proud to be part of the eV Challenge initiative and so grateful to have been afforded the opportunity to be part of this trip.” Mandie de Necker: “Ek het elke oomblik van die eV Challenge geniet. Dit was opwindend en ek het soveel nuwe goed geleer en beleef.  Ons besoek die eerste dag aan die Sci-Bono het my groter insig gegee in die nut van en toepassing van wetenskaplike beginsels. Kan dit werklik so interessant en prakties toepasbaar wees? Absoluut! Die besoek aan Nissan was fenominaal, onvergeetlik – ek het nie woorde nie. Baie dankie aan die Nissan-span, julle het dit werklik spesiaal gemaak.”  Dillon Brown: “Die trip was ‘n asemrowende ervaring – fenominaal! Sci-Bono 10/10 – Nissan 12/10. ‘n Onvergeetlike ervaring waarvoor ek lewenslank dankbaar sal bly.” Claud Fox: “An incredible and unforgettable experience and exposure to science and technology. It blew my mind and also enhanced the relationship among us as a team. Our eV car does not know what will hit it – soon. Watch this space for the 2019 series.”   Akimo Hamilton and George Trichardt: “This was an overwhelming experience. Technology – science – beautiful accommodation – a race car (what a wow this was)… my friends will have to put a sock in my mouth. I just can’t stop sharing this experience. Thank you, thank you.” Need one say more? We can make a difference and we did. Thank you Citybug (Jacques/Marthinus/Christo), Tsogo Sun/ Stay Easy (Michelle Higgo), Tanya Marais and the Nissan team – you made this all possible and in the process created memories for life. Thank you to the eV Challenge organisers for your commitment and vasbyt.