The celebration was attended by residents and guests who sat down and enjoyed a glass of wine while sharing some heart-warming stories behind Bateleur’s rich history. Bateleur Estate is located in the quiet outskirts of the city. There are facilities such as a bridge club, environmental committee, library, pottery club and Pilates. According to committee member Joe Meyer, the estate is one of the best in the country. “For me, there is no better place than this in South Africa. This is one of the best in adult lifestyle estate, you will never find a place like this in the country, I’m privileged to be part of it. We have harvested two tons of macadamias from the trees on our estate. We sold it and got a big amount of money that surprised us all. You will not get a better place than Bateleur,” said Meyer. One of the popular residents of Bateleur, who has formed part of its strong history, Godfried Kotze, who has been the facilities manager since its inception a decade ago, manages the place on his motorbike every day. Kotze said the estate is like heaven on earth. “When I first arrived here this place was just full of bushes before they built some of the sections. Actually it is unbelievable that 10 years later this place has turned into this beautiful and peaceful home,” said Kotze. Ronnie Kotze, Godfried’s wife who teaches pottery classes, said it is like there is one big family at the estate. “I enjoy teaching adults the handwork. I also like their creativity and it seems they are having the time of their lives here. Once a year we host a big exhibition and I’m sure you will admire what they have created with their hands,” said Kotze. Arriving at the estate four years ago, Koot van Staden, Berghaan chairman said he likes the sound of birds in the morning and the fresh smell that fills the air. Currently a wide range of construction packages are available for two- and three-bedroom units. A selection can be made between a small or large stand with a variety of building plans to choose from.   