 MBOMBELA – This call is in reaction to the R8,3 million spent on the Nelson Mandela statue that was unveiled on September 28. The DA alleged in a statement this week that Shongwe pocketed R1,5 million during the procurement process. In their turn, the EFF raised concern as to how the R8,3 million was spent at a press conference held in Witbank yesterday. “We feel the statue is not worth the money that was spent on it and according to our research it is worth between R3 000 and R3 500,” said provincial EFF chairman, Collen Sedibe. “We are demanding that the premier recall the MEC immediately,” Sedibe said, adding that this is not the first time that Shongwe was involved in illegal procurement matters like this one. In a statement by the DA, they confirmed that they had written to the Public Protector asking for an investigation into this MEC following allegations. “During a recent sitting of the Mpumalanga Provincial Legislature, Shongwe could not admit or deny that she had accepted a bribe but chose to rather try and embarrass other members of the legislature instead of answering the question,” said Jane Sithole, MPL DA Mpumalanga premier candidate. ALSO READ: R8.3 million Nelson Mandela statue: Where did the money go? Shongwe is no stranger to controversy related to hyperinflated tenders as she has been linked to multiple disproportionate tenders during her time as Speaker of the provincial legislature. It has been alleged that she overinflated a R15 million tender for IT services by attempting to force the successful bidder to accept a further R5,5 million; that she irregularly awarded a tender of R9,9 million to Junox 210 CC for the supply of photocopiers for a three-year period; and that she awarded a R19,6 million tender to controversial Frugacode CC for security and data integrity. “We will continue to monitor this situation in our effort to build one South Africa for all,” Sithole said. After more than two weeks spokesman for the department, Sibongile Nkosi, could not provide the newspaper with a breakdown of the R8,5 million budget for the statue and commemorative changes made to the legislature buildings. She could also not give comment on the procurement issues stated above. ALSO READ: Questions surrounding Madiba statue still not answered