The Win a Home Season Design Duos have already completed two double room challenges. Team Contrast Control & Team R&K tied to win the first challenge which was the double bedroom challenge. Following that, the Design Duos took on a second double challenge by tackling their master bathroom and guest bathroom. This time the boys took the title with Team Contrast Control impressing the judging panel & winning the challenge. Last week, host Danilo Acquisto briefed the Design Duos on their next room challenge. This time it’s not a double room challenge, but an important one nonetheless – the master bedroom. Before the Duos embarked on their next design journey they were treated to a trip to the Cheetah Sanctuary courtesy of Balwin Properties, sponsor of this year’s three white box units at their stunning Paardevlei Lifestyle Estate. With the fun & games out of the way, the Design Duos met their next mentor, Sarah Ord. With her reputation for eclectic colour use, the Duos were in great hands! Each Design Duo met up with the renowned designer to discuss their approach to the master bedroom and then got to brainstorm with some top local art collaborators. Team R&K joined forces with the Cape Town-based fine artist Emma Nourse for their master bedroom collaboration. Emma’s works have been featured in many galleries around the country. Team Contrast Control teamed up with Candice Lawrence, the owner of Modern Gesture, a local furniture designer based in Cape Town. Modern Gesture produces lighting, homeware and small stationery products from their studio in the heart of Cape Town’s suburbia. Finally, the Perma Peeps teamed up with Carol Saayman, the owner of the Cape Carol’s Curtains. Carol specialises in many styles of curtains & came highly recommended by many satisfied clients her company has done work for. Who will claim this all-important room challenge? Tune in to SABC 3 this Thursday 1 November at 7:30PM to find out. This week viewers stand the chance to win: To top it off, Capitec clients stand the chance of winning an additional cash prize! Every time you vote, it counts as an entry to the grand prize draw of the fully decorated Designer Penthouse Apartment at Paardevlei Lifestyle Estate worth R3 million! To enter simply click here!