 SKUKUZA – SANParks recently has made its management plan for parks, of which the Kruger National Park (KNP) is the flagship, public. The final draft was submitted to the minister of environmental affairs for approval. This management plan provides the broad strategic and operational framework for the management of the KNP, the achievement of goals and objectives of the park within the context of the broader regional landscape over the next 10 years. During the process the organisation has reviewed the biodiversity conservation, responsible tourism and socio-economic components, with increased emphasis on stronger stakeholder relationships and communication, continual learning, adaptive management and overall good governance. According to the project team, the experiences of visitors to the park formed an important objective of the exercise. It states that although SANParks’ primary mandate is that of conservation of biodiversity, the organisation also recognises the importance of responsible tourism as the best way to supplement funding for operational needs. As an internationally recognised tourism destination, the KNP is an economically and culturally valuable asset to Mpumalanga. The management plan addresses biodiversity components like ecosystem services, processes and associated cultural, historical and scenic features while facilitating the sharing of benefits with the neighbouring communities. Programmes mentioned fall within eight categories: regional integration, biodiversity conservation, wilderness, responsible tourism, cultural heritage, socio-economic development, stakeholder relationships and effective park management. It also focuses on integrated land use over the next 10 years. Among this counts action regarding the Great Limpopo Transfrontier Conservation Area Treaty, taking communities and ecosystems into account, with sustainable socio-economic benefits. The KNP management plan promises to be implemented in cooperation with all relevant sectors, organs of state, NGOs and communities. The complete plan, comments and responses documents can be viewed on the SANParks website: https://www.sanparks.org/conservation/park_man/draft_plans.php. The project team also expressed its appreciation to everybody who participated in the revision process. Stakeholders from local and district municipalities, other organs of state, traditional authorities, NGOs, local and metropolitan areas were consulted through public meetings, focus groups meetings, and written inputs. This management plan will come into effect following the approval by the minister of environmental affairs. Although intended to be implemented over a time frame of 10 years after commencement, it may be replaced earlier by a subsequently approved plan. SANParks will review this plan no later than 10 years after the commencement date.