 SKUKUZA – A well-known female leopard cub was recently rescued from a certain death. Umlilo, as she is now known, badly burned her paws after walking on a hot braai grid in the staff village at Skukuza. The 10-month-old leopard is one of two siblings orphaned at a young age. The male had apparently been killed, but Umlilo (fire in SiSwati) somehow managed to survive.
“We became worried, as she started to pose a threat to people and their livelihood,” said state veterinarian, Dr Lin-Mari de Klerk-Lorist. Umlilo’s condition deteriorated after this harrowing experience, but she was given a second lease on life thanks to, among others, Gerrie Camacho, a carnivore specialist at the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency who has dedicated his life to fight dwindling leopard numbers. Camacho and his team captured Umlilo and a blood test and skin test for tuberculosis were done.
“She luckily tested negative, but as per protocol, she is being kept in quarantine boma for six months,” said De Klerk-Lorist.
Umlilo is not only recovering from her poor condition and badly burned pads, but has been given an opportunity to grow into a sub-adult, creating a better chance for survival.   “She will be retested and only after all aspects for survival success have been evaluated, she can be released into the wild,” explained Camacho.  “She is now well looked after and confined to a boma at this stage on the property where she would be released into the wild. “Currently she still is fairly nervous and seems to thrive on the ample food she receives, consisting of pure game products,” said Camacho.
“I have to give credit to highly dedicated people going beyond expectations to care for and support our cause, such as De Klerk-Lorist and Dr Joel Alves, who are putting in a huge effort to do the boma care. “I want to reiterate that the rumours spread about us confining wild leopards in captivity in an unprofessional manner, without any purpose or plan, are completely unsubstantiated,” he concluded. Also read: Former Skukuza captain released on bail