 The triple phase project on the N4, which commenced in 2016, has been completed just ion time for the holiday season. Trans African Concessions (TRAC) recently announced that upgrade of Section 6E, between Crossroads and Montrose in Elands Valley, has been completed. The triple-phase project commenced in 2016 and included the construction of five kilometres of passing lanes, extensive rehabilitation work on 24 kilometres of pavement, the widening of culverts and bridges and ancillary work. Due to the section’s topography permanent Stop/Go’s were in place during most of the construction, however road users can today testify that the temporary inconvenience was well worth it as the quality and standard of this section of the N4 is outstanding. The section was completed on schedule and comes at the perfect time, just ahead of the Festive Season holiday period when traffic is expected to peak on the N4 Toll Route. Preventative measures against cattle rustlers “Because TRAC prides itself on offering excellent road infrastructure, which is on par with international standards, work on improving and maintaining our road never ends. For this reason, several other construction and rehabilitation projects are ongoing and others are soon to commence,” said TRAC Spokesman, Solange Nicholson Soares. OR Tambo Interchange (eMalahleni) to Middelburg Toll Plaza
Apart from routine crack sealing, repairs to the concrete road and shoulders are also being conducted on this section. TRAC does not foresee major traffic disruptions or delays due to this project, however road users can expect single lane closures on the eastbound and westbound carriageways and are thus urged to follow TRACN4 on Twitter for daily/hourly updates. Schoemanskloof – Crossroads to Bambi Rehabilitation of the existing road has commenced and is expected to be complete by August 2019. The project includes heavy rehabilitation of the existing road. A new asphalt overlay will be constructed over the entire road, including ramps and crossroads. Stop/Go’s will be implemented throughout the project. Sections 16 A/B Major rehabilitation work is still in progress, due to unplanned additional work being required. Ad-hoc Stop/Go’s are in place with the project expected to be completed before the start of the peak travel season. Sections 19 and 20 The upgrade of the N4 in Maputo, Mozambique – also referred to as MDC Sections 19 and 20 – is ongoing. This extensive project includes comprehensive roadworks between the Shoprite Centre Intersection in Matola and the 16 of June Circle in Maputo. It also includes the construction of two more lanes (one in each direction), which will result in a six-lane carriageway. The rehabilitation of the pavement and the widening of seven structures forms part of the construction, which is estimated to be concluded in June 2019. Given that this is the busiest section of the N4 Toll Route, managed by TRAC, there will be no lane closures. However, lane deviations and the partial closure of intersections will require speed restrictions to ensure road users’ safety. The latter affects traffic flow and road users are urged to be cautious, vigilante and patient. TRAC thanks members of the public for their patience and understanding at construction zones and assures you of our continued commitment to maintain the N4 Toll Route on par with world standards.