 The ultimate celebration of heritage, for many a local classic and not-so-classic car lover, is to do an anywhere road trip in their classic car. For some this included being accompanied by friends and family. And of course, Stanley and Ouma (hot coffee and Ouma rusks) is part of the kit on such a drive.  Adolf Laesecke and Johan van Putten organised the 2018 Heritage Run for Lowveld Old Wheels – the latter also being the oldest motoring club in the Lowveld. This year the convoy traveled along Barberton Makhonjwa Geo Trail, now a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It offered a 160km round trip on good tar roads, with a lunch stop on the way back at Jock of the Bushveld Boskombuis, where a traditional curry potjie and lots of chatter was the main dish on the menu.  The Makhonjwa Mountains in Mpumalanga are not well known by their original name. Maybe that is because Swazi folklore has it that pointing at them brings bad luck. A major drive for international recognition started many years ago, and now we have a UNESCO World Heritage site. The geotrail uses richlyillustrated panels along the route which draw aside the curtains of arcane geological communication, and reveal the signifi cance of the Barberton Greenstone Belt in everyday language and concepts.  This geotrail should be on your bucket list and offers something for everyone; from families on leisure breaks to geology students; to enjoy. The Lowveld Old Wheels celebrate heritage in style The Barberton Makhonjwa Geotrail takes you on a journey into the mists of an impossibly distant past of more than three billion years ago. But of course I am not going to tell you this story. Drive the trail, stop at the various sites and study the on-site information, be amazed and enjoy the landscape. I was driving the new Volvo XC60 and the many twisties on this route made it impossible to resist the Volvo’s invitation of course I accepted.  And yes, she handled them with distinction! Should you wish to join the local classic car enthusiasts, contact Louie Amorim on 084-602-1481.